SOURCE URL: https://floridadep.gov/water/siting-coordination-office/content/rights-way-and-eminent-domain

Rights-of-Way and Eminent Domain | Florida Department of Environmental Protection Skip to main content Florida Department of Environmental Protection A-Z Index Forms News Events Contact Us MENU About DEP How Do I Toggle submenu Apply for a Permit Apply for a Job with DEP Access the DEP Business Portal Clean Up Sites Contaminated by Petroleum Contact Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Contact the GIO Dispose of Unwanted Medicine Find DEP Standard Operating Procedures Find a Permit Find a Spring Find Hurricane Information Find Parks, Trails & Recreation Areas Find Water Supply Plans Florida Beach Access Get GIS Data Get Information About the Volkswagen Settlement, Florida Mitigation Fund Get Training and Certifications Learn about Florida’s Coral Reefs Learn about Septic Tanks Learn about Sinkholes Learn about Wastewater Management Protect the Environment from Solid and Hazardous Wastes Purchase Property Receive Analytical Lab Services Report Algal Blooms Report Suspected Weather Modification Activities Research Florida Geology Review Agency Rules See Pollution Notices Submit a Nondiscrimination Complaint View DEP's Interactive Maps Divisions Toggle submenu Administrative Services Air Resource Management Cabinet Affairs Communications Ecosystems Restoration Environmental Accountability and Transparency Environmental Assessment and Restoration Florida Geological Survey General Counsel Inspector General Intergovernmental Programs Land and Recreation Law Enforcement Legislative Affairs Office of the Secretary Ombudsman and Public Services Recreation and Parks Regulatory Programs Resilience and Coastal Protection Springs State Lands Technology and Information Services Waste Management Water Policy and Ecosystems Restoration Water Resource Management Water Restoration Assistance Districts Central District Northeast District Northwest District South District Southeast District Southwest District Air Lands Parks & Rec Waste Water Search Rights-of-Way and Eminent Domain Home Divisions Division of Water Resource Management Siting Coordination Office Rights-of-Way and Eminent Domain Siting-Coordination-Office Quick links Division of Water Resource Management Division Programs Siting Acts and Programs Ad Valorem Tax Assessment of Pollution Control Devices Electric and Magnetic Fields Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act Power Plant Siting Act Transmission Line Siting Act Siting Information Applications in Process Certified Facilities Information Certified Facilities Map Contacts Frequently Asked Questions Opportunities for Public Involvement Renewable Energy Permitting Rights of Way and Eminent Domain Statutes and Rules To Become a Party Information Department Search Information DEP Enterprise Information Portal OCULUS All Siting-Coordination-Office content Scroll for More Quick Links Rights-of-Way Transmission line and pipeline corridors are established during the certification process under either the Transmission Line Siting Act or the Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline Siting Act, the state’s centralized process for licensing transmission lines and natural gas pipelines. Corridors are proposed areas within which transmission line or pipeline rights-of-way will be located. The right-of-way, the land necessary for construction and maintenance of transmission lines or pipelines, is located within the corridor and identified prior to construction. After all property required for the right-of-way has been acquired, the boundaries of the certified area narrow to only that land within the boundaries of the right-of-way. Utilities obtain land needed for new transmission line or pipeline in several ways. Typically, they offer to buy the necessary land at fair market value and an agreeable sale is negotiated. Sometimes developers include utility infrastructure in their plans and dedicate or donate rights-of-way for utilities. Electric utilities typically work with the landowner to make sure the new line is as compatible as possible with existing or planned uses of the property. Many land uses can continue within a transmission line right-of-way as long as it does not interfere with safe operation of the line. Golf courses, parking lots, hiking and equestrian trails, row crops, citrus orchards and cattle pastures are examples of land uses often found within power line rights-of-way. Occasionally, if a voluntary purchase is not successful, utilities may use the power of eminent domain to acquire private property for public use. Eminent Domain Eminent domain is the power of the state to take private property for public use with compensation to the owner. This power, given to electric utilities by the state of Florida, authorizes a utility to acquire a right-of-way even though the owner does not want to sell. Transmission lines and pipelines require a linear, continuous right-of-way, preventing the utility from simply purchasing necessary land rights from another, more willing property owner. Utilities have this option under Florida law because power lines and pipelines benefit the community at large. The eminent domain process is governed by procedures set forth in Chapters 73 and 74, Florida Statutes, and includes the right of the landowner to be represented by counsel in an appropriate proceeding. To be successful in an eminent domain process, the electric utility must first establish a need for the new facility. Then the utility must show that in its route selection it has considered and evaluated costs, safety, long-range area planning, environmental factors and alternative routes. Once it is established that the utility facility is needed and the route selection process was properly conducted, the utility is granted the necessary land rights through the exercise of eminent domain and the utility must pay full compensation for the fair market value of the land rights acquired. An appeal process is available through the appropriate Florida District Court of Appeal. The Florida Public Service Commission oversees electric utilities’ planning of their transmission systems to ensure they are providing a reliable, safe and cost-effective coordinated grid pursuant to Chapter 366, Florida Statutes. Last Modified: Friday, Jul 25, 2025 - 01:17pm Interested in subscribing to DEP newsletters or receiving DEP updates through email? Sign Up About DEP The Florida Department of Environmental Protection is the state’s lead agency for environmental management and stewardship - protecting our air, water and land. The vision of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection is to create strong community partnerships, safeguard Florida’s natural resources and enhance its ecosystems. Learn More Links Air A-Z Index Lands Forms Parks & Rec How Do I Waste News Water Events Divisions Contact Us Contact 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000 Public.Services@FloridaDEP.gov 850-245-2118 Top Some content on this site is saved in an alternative format. The following icons link to free Reader/Viewer software: PDF: | Word: | Excel: © Copyright 2026 Florida Department of Environmental Protection Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Sitemap The content on the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's (DEP's) website was written and published in English, and English is the sole authoritative language for all such content. As an aid to site visitors who might benefit from multiple language options, the website offers an automated translation feature for browser content in the footer. The translation link will not convert attached or linked files, such as PDFs. The website translation feature uses Gtranslate® (https://www.drupal.org/project/gtranslate). Gtranslate® is a third-party tool which is not owned, maintained, modified, or controlled in any way by DEP, and which is not endorsed by DEP as preferable to either human-generated translations, or any other automated translation options. Translation is a nuanced and complex activity and computer-generated translations cannot be expected to be perfectly accurate. Automated translations of this site are not reviewed in advance by DEP and could convey incorrect or offensive language. DEP disclaims any liability for errors, omissions, or interpretive inconsistencies arising in the context of such translation. Site users assume all risk in using translated text. DEP is not responsible for any loss, damage, or harm resulting from reliance on translated text. Use of the translation tool in this website implies understanding and agreement with this assumption and disclaimer. Ok