SOURCE URL: https://floridadep.gov/water/siting-coordination-office/content/jea-st-johns-river-power-park-unit-3-power-plant-project
PAGE: 0

JEA St. Johns River Power Park Unit 3 Power Plant Project | Florida Department of Environmental Protection Skip to main content Florida Department of Environmental Protection A-Z Index Forms News Events Contact Us MENU About DEP How Do I Toggle submenu Apply for a Permit Apply for a Job with DEP Access the DEP Business Portal Clean Up Sites Contaminated by Petroleum Contact Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Contact the GIO Dispose of Unwanted Medicine Find DEP Standard Operating Procedures Find a Permit Find a Spring Find Hurricane Information Find Parks, Trails & Recreation Areas Find Water Supply Plans Florida Beach Access Get GIS Data Get Information About the Volkswagen Settlement, Florida Mitigation Fund Get Training and Certifications Learn about Florida’s Coral Reefs Learn about Septic Tanks Learn about Sinkholes Learn about Wastewater Management Protect the Environment from Solid and Hazardous Wastes Purchase Property Receive Analytical Lab Services Report Algal Blooms Report Suspected Weather Modification Activities Research Florida Geology Review Agency Rules See Pollution Notices Submit a Nondiscrimination Complaint View DEP's Interactive Maps Divisions Toggle submenu Administrative Services Air Resource Management Cabinet Affairs Communications Ecosystems Restoration Environmental Accountability and Transparency Environmental Assessment and Restoration Florida Geological Survey General Counsel Inspector General Intergovernmental Programs Land and Recreation Law Enforcement Legislative Affairs Office of the Secretary Ombudsman and Public Services Recreation and Parks Regulatory Programs Resilience and Coastal Protection Springs State Lands Technology and Information Services Waste Management Water Policy and Ecosystems Restoration Water Resource Management Water Restoration Assistance Districts Central District Northeast District Northwest District South District Southeast District Southwest District Air Lands Parks & Rec Waste Water Search JEA St. Johns River Power Park Unit 3 Power Plant Project Home Divisions Division of Water Resource Management Siting Coordination Office JEA St. Johns River Power Park Unit 3 Power Plant Project Siting-Coordination-Office Quick links Division of Water Resource Management Division Programs Siting Acts and Programs Ad Valorem Tax Assessment of Pollution Control Devices Electric and Magnetic Fields Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act Power Plant Siting Act Transmission Line Siting Act Siting Information Applications in Process Certified Facilities Information Certified Facilities Map Contacts Frequently Asked Questions Opportunities for Public Involvement Renewable Energy Permitting Rights of Way and Eminent Domain Statutes and Rules To Become a Party Information Department Search Information DEP Enterprise Information Portal OCULUS All Siting-Coordination-Office content Scroll for More Quick Links JEA St. Johns River Power Park (SJRPP) Unit 3 Power Plant Project (PA81-13A2): For the construction, operation, and maintenance of a new 706-megawatt one-on-one combined cycle generating facility and associated facilities. The project will be located on approximately 194 acres within the former site of SJRPP Units 1 and 2. This application is being processed under the Florida Electrical Power Plant Siting Act, Sections 403.501-.518, Florida Statutes (F.S.) . DEP Siting Coordination Office Case Manager: Nate Senn . Project Filings Application (filed 6/5/2026) Schedule (filed 6/15/2026) City of Jacksonville's Determination on Land Use and Zone Consistency (filed 7/1/2026) First Determination on Completeness (filed 7/15/2026,determined incomplete) First Completeness Response (filed 8/14/2026) Relevant Project Information Applicant Division of Administrative Hearings Case No. 26-2894EPP (Type 26-2894 in Case No. or Search Box) Public Service Commission (Docket No. 20260087) Public Notices Notice of Application Filing Florida Administrative Register Notice of Application Filing (published 6/26/2026) Florida Times-Union Newspaper Notice of Application Filing (published 6/26/2026) Direct Notice of Landowners Direct Notice to Landowners Within 3 Miles of the Proposed Site Notice of Land Use Determination Filing Florida Administrative Register Notice of City of Jacksonville's Land Use Determination (published 7/24/2026) Florida Times-Union Newspaper Notice of City of Jacksonville's Land Use Determination (published 7/24/2026) Last Modified: Monday, Aug 17, 2026 - 07:09am Interested in subscribing to DEP newsletters or receiving DEP updates through email? Sign Up About DEP The Florida Department of Environmental Protection is the state’s lead agency for environmental management and stewardship - protecting our air, water and land. The vision of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection is to create strong community partnerships, safeguard Florida’s natural resources and enhance its ecosystems. Learn More Links Air A-Z Index Lands Forms Parks & Rec How Do I Waste News Water Events Divisions Contact Us Contact 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000 Public.Services@FloridaDEP.gov 850-245-2118 Top Some content on this site is saved in an alternative format. The following icons link to free Reader/Viewer software: PDF: | Word: | Excel: © Copyright 2026 Florida Department of Environmental Protection Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Sitemap The content on the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's (DEP's) website was written and published in English, and English is the sole authoritative language for all such content. As an aid to site visitors who might benefit from multiple language options, the website offers an automated translation feature for browser content in the footer. The translation link will not convert attached or linked files, such as PDFs. The website translation feature uses Gtranslate® (https://www.drupal.org/project/gtranslate). Gtranslate® is a third-party tool which is not owned, maintained, modified, or controlled in any way by DEP, and which is not endorsed by DEP as preferable to either human-generated translations, or any other automated translation options. Translation is a nuanced and complex activity and computer-generated translations cannot be expected to be perfectly accurate. Automated translations of this site are not reviewed in advance by DEP and could convey incorrect or offensive language. DEP disclaims any liability for errors, omissions, or interpretive inconsistencies arising in the context of such translation. Site users assume all risk in using translated text. DEP is not responsible for any loss, damage, or harm resulting from reliance on translated text. Use of the translation tool in this website implies understanding and agreement with this assumption and disclaimer. Ok