SOURCE URL: https://floridadep.gov/water/siting-coordination-office/content/natural-gas-pipeline-siting-act
PAGE: 0

Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act | Florida Department of Environmental Protection Skip to main content Florida Department of Environmental Protection A-Z Index Forms News Events Contact Us MENU About DEP How Do I Toggle submenu Apply for a Permit Apply for a Job with DEP Access the DEP Business Portal Clean Up Sites Contaminated by Petroleum Contact Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Contact the GIO Dispose of Unwanted Medicine Find DEP Standard Operating Procedures Find a Permit Find a Spring Find Hurricane Information Find Parks, Trails & Recreation Areas Find Water Supply Plans Florida Beach Access Get GIS Data Get Information About the Volkswagen Settlement, Florida Mitigation Fund Get Training and Certifications Learn about Florida’s Coral Reefs Learn about Septic Tanks Learn about Sinkholes Learn about Wastewater Management Protect the Environment from Solid and Hazardous Wastes Purchase Property Receive Analytical Lab Services Report Algal Blooms Report Suspected Weather Modification Activities Research Florida Geology Review Agency Rules See Pollution Notices Submit a Nondiscrimination Complaint View DEP's Interactive Maps Divisions Toggle submenu Administrative Services Air Resource Management Cabinet Affairs Communications Ecosystems Restoration Environmental Accountability and Transparency Environmental Assessment and Restoration Florida Geological Survey General Counsel Inspector General Intergovernmental Programs Land and Recreation Law Enforcement Legislative Affairs Office of the Secretary Ombudsman and Public Services Recreation and Parks Regulatory Programs Resilience and Coastal Protection Springs State Lands Technology and Information Services Waste Management Water Policy and Ecosystems Restoration Water Resource Management Water Restoration Assistance Districts Central District Northeast District Northwest District South District Southeast District Southwest District Air Lands Parks & Rec Waste Water Search Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act Home Divisions Division of Water Resource Management Siting Coordination Office Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act Siting-Coordination-Office Quick links Division of Water Resource Management Division Programs Siting Acts and Programs Ad Valorem Tax Assessment of Pollution Control Devices Electric and Magnetic Fields Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act Power Plant Siting Act Transmission Line Siting Act Siting Information Applications in Process Certified Facilities Information Certified Facilities Map Contacts Frequently Asked Questions Opportunities for Public Involvement Renewable Energy Permitting Rights of Way and Eminent Domain Statutes and Rules To Become a Party Information Department Search Information DEP Enterprise Information Portal OCULUS All Siting-Coordination-Office content Scroll for More Quick Links The Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline Siting Act (NGTPSA), Sections 403.9401-.9425, Florida Statutes, is the state's process for licensing the construction and operation of natural gas pipelines within Florida. Responsibilities for Permitting Natural Gas Pipelines The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission regulates interstate natural gas transmission and reviews proposals to build interstate natural gas pipelines. The Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) handles in-state environmental regulatory matters for wetlands crossings, discharge of hydrostatic test waters and other applicable areas. Other state and local agencies may also be involved in regulatory matters for intrastate natural gas pipelines. What is a Transmission Pipeline? A transmission pipeline transports gas from a gathering line or storage facility to a distribution center or storage facility. A transmission pipeline may also transport gas within a storage field. Natural gas pipelines that are exempt from the NGTPSA include: Pipelines that do not cross a county line or are less than 100 miles in length. Pipelines that are primarily for the local distribution of natural gas. Pipelines being licensed as an associated facility under the Power Plant Siting Act. Pipelines for which a certificate of public convenience and necessity has been issued under s. 7(c) of the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. s. 717f. Applicants (see NGTPSA application guide ) may use the licensing process under the NGTPSA for projects exempt from the Act (see NGTPSA applicability flow chart ). Certification Process for Transmission Pipelines: The certification process and procedural requirements ( see NGTPSA certification process flow chart ) are similar to those for electrical transmission lines, including the ability of parties to propose alternate corridors and the possibility that an alternate corridor will be the one certified. A difference between the two Acts is that electrical transmission corridors can be up to a mile wide, while under the NGTPSA, corridors can only be one-third mile wide. This reduces the amount of area to be reviewed and the number of people who may potentially be affected by the pipeline. As with transmission lines, safety and land ownership questions frequently arise about natural gas pipeline location. In Florida, safety jurisdiction for natural gas pipelines lies with the Public Service Commission, but DEP's Siting Coordination Office can answer questions or recommend an appropriate contact at the Public Service Commission. Regarding land ownership, utilities typically offer to buy land necessary for a project at fair market value and an agreeable sale is negotiated. However, certification does empower the company with the right of eminent domain. Procedural Rules for Natural Gas Transmission Pipelines The procedural rule for Natural Gas Transmission Pipeline is Chapter 62-807 , Florida Administrative Code. All nonprocedural rules that would otherwise apply to such a facility also apply to a certified facility. No projects have been certified under the Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act. Last Modified: Thursday, Jun 11, 2026 - 11:06am Interested in subscribing to DEP newsletters or receiving DEP updates through email? Sign Up About DEP The Florida Department of Environmental Protection is the state’s lead agency for environmental management and stewardship - protecting our air, water and land. The vision of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection is to create strong community partnerships, safeguard Florida’s natural resources and enhance its ecosystems. Learn More Links Air A-Z Index Lands Forms Parks & Rec How Do I Waste News Water Events Divisions Contact Us Contact 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000 Public.Services@FloridaDEP.gov 850-245-2118 Top Some content on this site is saved in an alternative format. The following icons link to free Reader/Viewer software: PDF: | Word: | Excel: © Copyright 2026 Florida Department of Environmental Protection Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Sitemap The content on the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's (DEP's) website was written and published in English, and English is the sole authoritative language for all such content. As an aid to site visitors who might benefit from multiple language options, the website offers an automated translation feature for browser content in the footer. The translation link will not convert attached or linked files, such as PDFs. The website translation feature uses Gtranslate® (https://www.drupal.org/project/gtranslate). Gtranslate® is a third-party tool which is not owned, maintained, modified, or controlled in any way by DEP, and which is not endorsed by DEP as preferable to either human-generated translations, or any other automated translation options. Translation is a nuanced and complex activity and computer-generated translations cannot be expected to be perfectly accurate. Automated translations of this site are not reviewed in advance by DEP and could convey incorrect or offensive language. DEP disclaims any liability for errors, omissions, or interpretive inconsistencies arising in the context of such translation. Site users assume all risk in using translated text. DEP is not responsible for any loss, damage, or harm resulting from reliance on translated text. Use of the translation tool in this website implies understanding and agreement with this assumption and disclaimer. Ok