SOURCE URL: https://floridadep.gov/water/siting-coordination-office/content/opportunities-public-involvement

Opportunities for Public Involvement | Florida Department of Environmental Protection Skip to main content Florida Department of Environmental Protection A-Z Index Forms News Events Contact Us MENU About DEP How Do I Toggle submenu Apply for a Permit Apply for a Job with DEP Access the DEP Business Portal Clean Up Sites Contaminated by Petroleum Contact Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Contact the GIO Dispose of Unwanted Medicine Find DEP Standard Operating Procedures Find a Permit Find a Spring Find Hurricane Information Find Parks, Trails & Recreation Areas Find Water Supply Plans Florida Beach Access Get GIS Data Get Information About the Volkswagen Settlement, Florida Mitigation Fund Get Training and Certifications Learn about Florida’s Coral Reefs Learn about Septic Tanks Learn about Sinkholes Learn about Wastewater Management Protect the Environment from Solid and Hazardous Wastes Purchase Property Receive Analytical Lab Services Report Algal Blooms Report Suspected Weather Modification Activities Research Florida Geology Review Agency Rules See Pollution Notices Submit a Nondiscrimination Complaint View DEP's Interactive Maps Divisions Toggle submenu Administrative Services Air Resource Management Cabinet Affairs Communications Ecosystems Restoration Environmental Accountability and Transparency Environmental Assessment and Restoration Florida Geological Survey General Counsel Inspector General Intergovernmental Programs Land and Recreation Law Enforcement Legislative Affairs Office of the Secretary Ombudsman and Public Services Recreation and Parks Regulatory Programs Resilience and Coastal Protection Springs State Lands Technology and Information Services Waste Management Water Policy and Ecosystems Restoration Water Resource Management Water Restoration Assistance Districts Central District Northeast District Northwest District South District Southeast District Southwest District Air Lands Parks & Rec Waste Water Search Opportunities for Public Involvement Home Divisions Division of Water Resource Management Siting Coordination Office Opportunities for Public Involvement Siting-Coordination-Office Quick links Division of Water Resource Management Division Programs Siting Acts and Programs Ad Valorem Tax Assessment of Pollution Control Devices Electric and Magnetic Fields Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act Power Plant Siting Act Transmission Line Siting Act Siting Information Applications in Process Certified Facilities Information Certified Facilities Map Contacts Frequently Asked Questions Opportunities for Public Involvement Renewable Energy Permitting Rights of Way and Eminent Domain Statutes and Rules To Become a Party Information Department Search Information DEP Enterprise Information Portal OCULUS All Siting-Coordination-Office content Scroll for More Quick Links Power Plant Certification Process Spanish Version Any citizen may: Download a copy of the application or visit the local Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) district office to view a hard copy. Many documents can be downloaded from the Applications in Process webpage. Provide input to their local government related to Land Use Determination. This determination (similar to a zoning review) is made within 45 days after the application has been filed, if the local government has enough information to make such a determination. ( section 403.50665 , Florida Statutes (F.S.). Provide comments to their local government (city or county) and encourage local government to hold an informational public meeting. This meeting must be held within 70 days after the application has been filed. ( section 403.50663 , F.S.) Propose alternate transmission line corridors if the application allows for the opportunity pursuant to section 403.5064 (4), F.S., no later than 165 days before the Certification Hearing. Legal counsel may be needed if seeking to become a party to the case as defined in section 403.508 (2)(e), F.S. Further, timely filings with the Division of Administrative Hearings will be required. Be aware that there are expenses associated with proposing an alternate corridor. Appropriate fees, public notices and filings will be required pursuant to Sections 403.518 (6) and 403.5115 (7)(a), F.S. Challenge the local government’s Land Use Determination within 21 days, in accordance with section 403.50665 (4), F.S., if you are a substantially affected person. Since substantially affected is not defined in the Administrative Procedure Act, legal counsel may be needed to become a party to the case as defined in section 403.508 (2)(e), F.S. Further, the petition will require a timely filing with the Division of Administrative Hearings . Attend the Land Use Hearing, if held. If a petition is filed disputing the Land Use Determination, a Land Use Hearing will be held in the local area; otherwise, no Land Use hearing will be held. Any citizen may attend the hearing and provide comments, as per section 403.508 (4)(b), F.S., at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge. Attend the Siting Board (Governor and Cabinet) meeting regarding Land Use, if held. A Siting Board meeting regarding Land Use will be held if a Land Use Hearing was held. These meetings are held at the Capitol building in Tallahassee. The Siting Board may allow public comments. However, the issues that may be raised in any hearing before the Siting Board must be limited to issues raised in the certification proceeding or in the recommended order as per section 403.509 (2), F.S. Become a party to the Certification Hearing by filing prior to 30 days before the certification hearing if you are a substantially affected person. Since substantially affected is not defined in the Administrative Procedure Act, you may need to retain legal counsel to become a party to the case as defined in section 403.508 (2)(e), F.S. Further, the petition will require a timely filing with the Division of Administrative Hearings ; look at other cases to determine the format to follow. Check the DOAH Docket online for similar cases. Attend the Certification Hearing, if held. Unless all parties stipulate otherwise, a Certification Hearing will be held in the local area. Any citizen may attend the Certification Hearing and provide comments, written or oral, at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge. If the Administrative Law Judge considers such communication, all parties are given an opportunity to cross-examine, challenge or rebut the communication. Attend the Siting Board meeting regarding Certification, if held. A Siting Board meeting regarding Certification will be held if a Certification Hearing was held. These meetings are held at the Capitol in Tallahassee, and the Siting Board may allow public comments. However, the issues that may be raised may be limited to issues raised in the certification proceeding or in the recommended order as per section 403.509 (2), F.S. Challenge the Siting Board’s Final Order within 30 days if you are a party. Any parties to the proceeding has the right to seek judicial review of the Final Order pursuant to Section 120.68, F.S., by filing a Notice of Appeal pursuant to Rule 9.110 with the Clerk of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection in the Office of General Counsel, 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard, MS 35, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000. A copy of the Notice of Appeal accompanied by applicable filing fees also must be filed with the appropriate District Court of Appeal. Transmission Line Certification Process Any citizen may: Download a copy of the application or visit the local DEP district office to view a hard copy. Many documents can be downloaded from the Applications in Process webpage. Provide comments to local government (city or county). Encourage local government to hold an informational public meeting in accordance with section 403.5272 , F.S. (the meeting must be held within 55 days after the application has been filed). Encourage local government to request a public hearing in accordance with section 403.527 (4), F.S., no later than 21 days after the application has been determined complete. Within five days after notification by the local government, the administrative law judge shall determine the date of the public hearing, to be held before or during the certification hearing. If two or more local governments within one county request a public hearing, the hearing shall be consolidated so that only one public hearing is held in any county. The administrative law judge determines the location of a consolidated hearing. Propose an alternate corridor 45 days before the Certification Hearing, in accordance with section 403.5271 , F.S. By making such a filing, legal counsel may be needed if you are seeking to become a party to the case as defined in section 403.527 (2)(c)3, F.S. Further, timely filing with the Division of Administrative Hearings is required. If proposing an alternate corridor, you must comply with all requirements within section 403.5271 , F.S., including the public notice requirements of 403.5363 (2) and (6)(a), F.S., as well the rule requirements and fees within Rules 62-17.510 - 62-17.760 , Florida Administrative Code. Become a party to the Certification Hearing by filing at least 30 days before the certification hearing if you are a substantially affected person. To do this, file a petition with the Division of Administrative Hearings. Since substantially affected is not defined in the Administrative Procedure Act, legal counsel may be needed to become a party to the case as defined in section 403.527 (2)(c)3, F.S. Further, the petition will require a timely filing with the Division of Administrative Hearings; look at other cases to determine the format to follow. Check the Division of Administrative Hearings' Docket online for similar cases. Attend the Certification Hearing, if held. Unless all parties stipulate otherwise, one Certification Hearing will be held in the general area of the transmission line. Any citizen may attend the Certification Hearing and provide comments, written or oral, at the discretion of the Hearing Officer. If the Hearing Officer considers such communication, all parties are given an opportunity to cross-examine, challenge or rebut the comments. Attend the Siting Board (Governor and Cabinet) meeting regarding Certification, if held. A Siting Board meeting regarding Certification will be held if a Certification Hearing was held. These meetings are held at the Capitol building in Tallahassee, and the Siting Board may allow public comments. However, the issues raised in any hearing before the board must be limited to issues raised in the certification proceeding before the administrative law judge or raised in the recommended order as per section 403.529 (2), F.S. Challenge the Siting Board’s Final Order within 30 days if you are a party. Any party to the proceeding has the right to seek judicial review of the Final Order pursuant to Section 120.68, F.S., by filing a Notice of Appeal pursuant to Rule 9.110, Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure, with the clerk of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection’s Office of General Counsel, 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard, MS 35, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000. A copy of the Notice of Appeal accompanied by applicable filing fees must also be filed with the appropriate District Court of Appeal. Natural Gas Pipeline Certification Process Any citizen may: Download a copy of the application or visit the local DEP district office to view a hard copy. Many documents can be downloaded from the Applications in Process webpage. Provide comments to affected agencies, as described in section 403.941 (2)(a), F.S., with regards to the preliminary statement of issues ( 403.941 (1), F.S.) and agency reports ( section 403.941 (2)(a), F.S.). Preliminary statement of issue comments must be received within 60 days after the distribution of the application, and agency reports comments must be received within 60 days after the application is determined sufficient. Provide comments to DEP in regards to the written analysis in accordance with section 403.941 (3)(b), F.S. Comments must be received within 115 days after the application is determined sufficient. Encourage local governments, as defined in section 403.9403 (13), F.S., to hold an informational public meeting in accordance with section 403.9424 , F.S. The meetings must be held no later than 80 days after the application has been filed. Encourage local governments to request a public hearing where members of the public may testify in accordance with section 403.9411 (2), F.S. The local government must request a public hearing no later than 50 days after the receipt of the application. Within five days after such notification by the local government, the administrative law judge shall determine the date of the public hearing, which shall be held before or during the certification hearing. If two or more local governments within one county request a public hearing, the hearing shall be consolidated so that only one public hearing is held in any county. The administrative law judge determines the location of a consolidated hearing. Become a party to the Certification Hearing by filing a notice of intent to be a party or a petition for intervention no later than 30 days prior to the Certification Hearing in accordance with section 403.9411 (4)(c), F.S. To do this, file a petition with the Division of Administrative Hearings. Legal counsel may be needed to become a party to the proceeding. Attend the Certification Hearing in accordance with section 403.9411 (5), F.S. A Certification Hearing will be held no later than 215 days after the receipt of an application in the general area of the natural gas transmission line or corridor. Any citizen may attend the Certification Hearing and provide written or oral comments; all parties are given an opportunity to challenge or rebut the comments. Propose an alternate corridor in accordance with section 403.9412 , F.S., no later than 50 days prior to the Certification Hearing. By making such a filing, legal counsel may be needed if you are seeking to become a party to the case as defined in section 403.9411 (4)(c), F.S. If proposing an alternate corridor, you must comply with all requirements within section 403.9412 , F.S., as well as the public notice requirements of section 403.9411 (1)(b) and (c), F.S. Attend the Siting Board (Governor and Cabinet) meeting regarding the approval or denial of the certification in accordance with section 403.9415 , F.S. The Siting Board meeting shall be held within 60 days after the receipt of the recommended order at the Capitol building in Tallahassee. The Siting Board may allow public comments; however, the issues raised in any hearing before the board must be limited to issues raised in the certification proceeding before the administrative law judge or raised in the recommended order. Challenge the Siting Board’s Final Order within 30 days if you are a party. Any party to the proceeding has the right to seek judicial review of the Final Order pursuant to section 120.68, F.S., by filing a Notice of Appeal pursuant to Rule 9.110, Florida Rules of Appellate Procedure, with the clerk of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection’s Office of General Counsel, 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard, MS 35, Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000. A copy of the Notice of Appeal accompanied by applicable filing fees must also be filed with the appropriate District Court of Appeal. Last Modified: Friday, Jul 25, 2025 - 01:17pm Interested in subscribing to DEP newsletters or receiving DEP updates through email? Sign Up About DEP The Florida Department of Environmental Protection is the state’s lead agency for environmental management and stewardship - protecting our air, water and land. The vision of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection is to create strong community partnerships, safeguard Florida’s natural resources and enhance its ecosystems. Learn More Links Air A-Z Index Lands Forms Parks & Rec How Do I Waste News Water Events Divisions Contact Us Contact 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000 Public.Services@FloridaDEP.gov 850-245-2118 Top Some content on this site is saved in an alternative format. The following icons link to free Reader/Viewer software: PDF: | Word: | Excel: © Copyright 2026 Florida Department of Environmental Protection Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Sitemap The content on the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's (DEP's) website was written and published in English, and English is the sole authoritative language for all such content. As an aid to site visitors who might benefit from multiple language options, the website offers an automated translation feature for browser content in the footer. The translation link will not convert attached or linked files, such as PDFs. The website translation feature uses Gtranslate® (https://www.drupal.org/project/gtranslate). Gtranslate® is a third-party tool which is not owned, maintained, modified, or controlled in any way by DEP, and which is not endorsed by DEP as preferable to either human-generated translations, or any other automated translation options. Translation is a nuanced and complex activity and computer-generated translations cannot be expected to be perfectly accurate. Automated translations of this site are not reviewed in advance by DEP and could convey incorrect or offensive language. DEP disclaims any liability for errors, omissions, or interpretive inconsistencies arising in the context of such translation. Site users assume all risk in using translated text. DEP is not responsible for any loss, damage, or harm resulting from reliance on translated text. Use of the translation tool in this website implies understanding and agreement with this assumption and disclaimer. Ok