SOURCE URL: https://floridadep.gov/water/siting-coordination-office/content/transmission-line-siting-act
PAGE: 0

Transmission Line Siting Act | Florida Department of Environmental Protection Skip to main content Florida Department of Environmental Protection A-Z Index Forms News Events Contact Us MENU About DEP How Do I Toggle submenu Apply for a Permit Apply for a Job with DEP Access the DEP Business Portal Clean Up Sites Contaminated by Petroleum Contact Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Contact the GIO Dispose of Unwanted Medicine Find DEP Standard Operating Procedures Find a Permit Find a Spring Find Hurricane Information Find Parks, Trails & Recreation Areas Find Water Supply Plans Florida Beach Access Get GIS Data Get Information About the Volkswagen Settlement, Florida Mitigation Fund Get Training and Certifications Learn about Florida’s Coral Reefs Learn about Septic Tanks Learn about Sinkholes Learn about Wastewater Management Protect the Environment from Solid and Hazardous Wastes Purchase Property Receive Analytical Lab Services Report Algal Blooms Report Suspected Weather Modification Activities Research Florida Geology Review Agency Rules See Pollution Notices Submit a Nondiscrimination Complaint View DEP's Interactive Maps Divisions Toggle submenu Administrative Services Air Resource Management Cabinet Affairs Communications Ecosystems Restoration Environmental Accountability and Transparency Environmental Assessment and Restoration Florida Geological Survey General Counsel Inspector General Intergovernmental Programs Land and Recreation Law Enforcement Legislative Affairs Office of the Secretary Ombudsman and Public Services Recreation and Parks Regulatory Programs Resilience and Coastal Protection Springs State Lands Technology and Information Services Waste Management Water Policy and Ecosystems Restoration Water Resource Management Water Restoration Assistance Districts Central District Northeast District Northwest District South District Southeast District Southwest District Air Lands Parks & Rec Waste Water Search Transmission Line Siting Act Home Divisions Division of Water Resource Management Siting Coordination Office Transmission Line Siting Act Siting-Coordination-Office Quick links Division of Water Resource Management Division Programs Siting Acts and Programs Ad Valorem Tax Assessment of Pollution Control Devices Electric and Magnetic Fields Natural Gas Pipeline Siting Act Power Plant Siting Act Transmission Line Siting Act Siting Information Applications in Process Certified Facilities Information Certified Facilities Map Contacts Frequently Asked Questions Opportunities for Public Involvement Renewable Energy Permitting Rights of Way and Eminent Domain Statutes and Rules To Become a Party Information Department Search Information DEP Enterprise Information Portal OCULUS All Siting-Coordination-Office content Scroll for More Quick Links The Transmission Line Siting Act (TLSA), Sections 403.52-.5365 , Florida Statutes (F.S.), is the state's centralized process for licensing electrical transmission lines that: Are 230 kilovolts (kV) or larger; Cross a county line; and, Are 15 miles or longer. An applicant can request to use the act for a line less than 15 miles long or if within one county. See TLSA applicability flow chart for further clarification. If a line is to be constructed entirely within certain rights-of-way, the TLSA may not apply; however, this does not relieve the utility from the obligation to obtain the necessary individual permits and approvals. This exemption is date-dependent if it is for a transmission line as defined in the TLSA. See Section 403.524(2)(c), F.S. The procedural rule is Chapter 62-17, Part II, Florida Administrative Code (F.A.C.), [62-17.510 through 62-17.760]. An application guide is also available. All nonprocedural rules that would otherwise apply to such a facility will apply to a certified facility. See the Certified Facilities list for the lines that are certified under the TLSA. Further information on the certified corridor shrinking to a right-of-way is found on the Rights-of-Way and Eminent Domain page. The TLSA is similar to the Power Plant Siting Act. Both require Siting Board (Governor and Cabinet) certification and the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) acts as lead agency as well as addresses its own jurisdictional interests. In both laws, certification covers all state and local permits and is for the life-of-the-facility. Public involvement opportunities are also provided in both laws. Most of the steps, when districts and divisions must participate, remain the same. The time provided for the transmission line siting certification process is shorter than the power plant siting certification process. The two main differences between the TLSA and PPSA are: There is no Land Use and Zoning hearing for transmission line siting certification. Parties to the TLSA proceeding can propose corridors alternate in location to the ones proposed by the applicant (the corridor is an area in which the right-of-way will be located). After review, alternate corridors may be the one (or a variation thereof) certified. (See TLSA certification process flowchart ) The alternate corridor provision provides affected persons the opportunity to address concerns about project location. Since transmission line corridors can be up to a mile wide and several hundred miles long, many alternates can be proposed and must be reviewed. Because of this consideration, and because a corridor is initially what is proposed for certification, an exact right-of-way location can seldom be reviewed during the proceedings. Thus, the post-certification review is used extensively in the TLSA following right-of-way selection. Most impacts under post-certification review are concerned with line location in relation to wetlands. Corridor and right-of-way location raises more than wetlands issues. The public is frequently concerned about health and safety effects from electric and magnetic fields (EMF). DEP regulates transmission line EMF, and the Siting Coordination Office, which administers the program, can answer questions about Florida's EMF regulations as they pertain to transmission lines. Land ownership is also sometimes a concern. Utility companies typically offer to buy land necessary for a project at fair market value and an agreeable sale is negotiated. However, certification does empower the company with the right of eminent domain . Once a right-of-way has been established, future right-of-way vegetation maintenance is regulated under Section 163.3209, F.S., and applicable federal regulations under the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission . Last Modified: Friday, Jul 25, 2025 - 01:17pm Interested in subscribing to DEP newsletters or receiving DEP updates through email? Sign Up About DEP The Florida Department of Environmental Protection is the state’s lead agency for environmental management and stewardship - protecting our air, water and land. The vision of the Florida Department of Environmental Protection is to create strong community partnerships, safeguard Florida’s natural resources and enhance its ecosystems. Learn More Links Air A-Z Index Lands Forms Parks & Rec How Do I Waste News Water Events Divisions Contact Us Contact 3900 Commonwealth Boulevard Tallahassee, Florida 32399-3000 Public.Services@FloridaDEP.gov 850-245-2118 Top Some content on this site is saved in an alternative format. The following icons link to free Reader/Viewer software: PDF: | Word: | Excel: © Copyright 2026 Florida Department of Environmental Protection Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Sitemap The content on the Florida Department of Environmental Protection's (DEP's) website was written and published in English, and English is the sole authoritative language for all such content. As an aid to site visitors who might benefit from multiple language options, the website offers an automated translation feature for browser content in the footer. The translation link will not convert attached or linked files, such as PDFs. The website translation feature uses Gtranslate® (https://www.drupal.org/project/gtranslate). Gtranslate® is a third-party tool which is not owned, maintained, modified, or controlled in any way by DEP, and which is not endorsed by DEP as preferable to either human-generated translations, or any other automated translation options. Translation is a nuanced and complex activity and computer-generated translations cannot be expected to be perfectly accurate. Automated translations of this site are not reviewed in advance by DEP and could convey incorrect or offensive language. DEP disclaims any liability for errors, omissions, or interpretive inconsistencies arising in the context of such translation. Site users assume all risk in using translated text. DEP is not responsible for any loss, damage, or harm resulting from reliance on translated text. Use of the translation tool in this website implies understanding and agreement with this assumption and disclaimer. Ok