SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 99

energy (MWh) the new solar facility generates each year for the first ten years of operation. For future resource additions, the PTC rate in 2026 starts at $31 for each MWh generated.4 The $31 per MWh credit amount for a new solar facility that comes in-service increases with inflation each year. In mid-2025, the OBBBA was signed and changed the projection of future ITCs and PTCs. With this new bill enacted, all of FPL’s projected solar additions through 2026 will qualify for 100% of the PTC. FPL’s projected solar additions through 2030 will also still be eligible for the full PTC, as all of those sites come within the “Safe Harbor” guidelines that require construction to commence on or before one year of the enactment of the OBBBA. The additional solar units that are presented in this Site Plan through the remainder of the ten-year period will not be eligible for the PTC. The battery storage ITC has also been affected by the OBBBA, but the associated impacts occur on a different timeline. In terms of the resource additions in this Site Plan, all planned battery storage will still be eligible for the 30% ITC through 2035. FPL’s resource plan presented in this Site Plan accounts for the effects of these tax credits and the impact of the OBBBA. 2. The critical need to maintain a balance between load and generating capacity in specific regions of FPL’s service area, such as in Northwest Florida and Southeastern Florida (Miami-Dade and Broward counties): This balance has both reliability and economic implications for FPL’s system and customers, and it is a key reason that FPL has expanded generation and transmission in specific areas in the past. 3. The desire to maintain/enhance fuel diversity in the FPL system while considering system economics and reliability: In 2025, FPL used natural gas to generate approximately 68% of the total electricity it delivered to its customers. By 2035, due largely to significant solar additions, the percentage of electricity generated by natural gas for FPL’s system is projected to decrease to approximately 57% based on the resource plan presented in this Site Plan. Due to this reliance on natural gas, opportunities to economically maintain and enhance fuel diversity are continually sought, with due consideration given to system economics. For example, FPL is projecting the addition of cost-effective solar generation throughout the ten-year reporting period of this document. 4 To illustrate the magnitude of the impact of the solar PTC, take a simple example of a 74.5 MW solar facility that produces approximately 150,000 MWh per year in 2026 (i.e., assuming a net capacity factor of 23%). The proposed solar PTC for that year would result in a tax credit of (150,000 MWh x $31/MWh =) $4.7 million. This first year tax credit would then be extended for nine more years while being adjusted for inflation. Florida Power & Light Company 85