SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 197

FPSC’s December 2014 DSM Goals Order No. PSC-14-0696-FOF-EU, these pilot programs expired on December 31, 2015. Gulf conducted market research in 2015 indicating customer interest in a renewable energy alternative to private rooftop solar. After further research into innovative offerings across the industry, Gulf developed a subscription-based program model commonly known as community solar. Gulf received FPSC approval in 2016 for a Community Solar program intended to facilitate construction of a 1 MW facility in Northwest Florida once adequate subscriptions were secured. However, customer interest was not adequate enough to justify construction of the project. In addition, FPL assists customers interested in installing solar equipment at their facilities. Consistent with Rule 25-6.065, F.A.C., Interconnection and Net Metering of Customer-Owned Renewable Generation, FPL works with customers to interconnect these customer-owned solar systems. Through December 2025, approximately 133,737 customer systems (predominantly residential) have been interconnected with FPL (including FPL NWFL). These values represent approximately 2% of FPL’s total number of customer accounts. 3) Supply-Side Efforts - Power Purchases: FPL has facilitated several renewable energy projects (facilities which burn bagasse, waste wood, municipal waste, etc.) through power purchase agreements (PPA). FPL purchases firm capacity and energy, and/or as-available energy, from these types of facilities. For example, FPL has a contract to receive firm capacity from the Solid Waste Authority of Palm Beach (SWA) through April 2034. FPL currently has three PPAs with solar facilities totaling approximately 120 MW of nameplate capacity. In addition, FPL has two PPAs totaling approximately 81 MW based, at least in part, on receiving firm amounts of hourly energy from out-of-state sources that were originally wind- generated. Tables I.A.3.1, I.A.3.2, and I.A.3.3 in Chapter I provide information regarding both firm and non-firm capacity PPAs from renewable energy facilities in the two areas. 4) Supply Side Efforts - Utility Owned Facilities: At the time this Site Plan is filed (April 1, 2026), FPL will own 116 universal solar generating facilities. All of these facilities are PV facilities and together they represent approximately 8,528 MW (nameplate) of generation for FPL. Each of these solar facilities is listed below in Table III.F.1. Florida Power & Light Company 183