SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 15

Overview of the Document Chapter 186, Florida Statutes, requires that each electric utility in the State of Florida with a minimum existing generating capacity of 250 megawatts (MW) must annually submit a Ten-Year Power Plant Site Plan (Site Plan). This Site Plan should include an estimate of the utility’s future electric power generating needs, a projection of how these estimated generating needs could be met, and disclosure of information pertaining to the utility’s Preferred and Potential power plant sites. The information contained in this Site Plan is compiled and presented in accordance with Rules 25-22.070, 25-22.071, and 25-22.072, Florida Administrative Code (F.A.C.). Site Plans are long-term planning documents and should be viewed in this context. A Site Plan contains uncertain forecasts and tentative planning information. Forecasts evolve, and all planning information is subject to change, at the discretion of the utility. Much of the data submitted is preliminary in nature and is presented in a general manner. Specific and detailed data will be submitted as part of the Florida site certification process, or through other proceedings and filings, at the appropriate time. This Site Plan document addresses Florida Power & Light Company (FPL), which includes the service area of the former Gulf Power Company (Gulf). NextEra Energy, Inc. (NextEra Energy), the parent company of FPL, acquired Gulf in January 2019. Resource planning is now being done for the single entity of FPL, with Gulf’s former service area now referred to as FPL’s Northwest Florida Division (FPL NWFL). The information presented in this Site Plan is based on integrated resource planning (IRP) analyses that were carried out in 2025 and the 1st Quarter of 2026. The forecasted information presented in this plan addresses the years 2026 through 2035. This document is organized in the following manner: Chapter I - Description of Existing Resources This chapter provides an overview of FPL’s current generating facilities. Also included is information on other FPL resources including purchased power, demand-side management (DSM), and FPL’s transmission system. Chapter II - Forecast of Electric Power Demand The load forecasting methodology utilized for FPL, and the resulting forecast of seasonal peaks and annual energy usage, are presented in Chapter II. Included in this discussion are the projected ongoing impacts Florida Power & Light Company 1