SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/reliability/storm-secure-underground-program.html

FPL | Reliability | Storm Secure Underground Program Skip to Main Content /content/fplgp/us/en/northwest/reliability/storm-secure-underground-program.html Which region would you like to access today? FPL OR FPL Northwest FL CONTINUE Storm Secure Underground Program Highlights Frequently asked questions Contact us The Storm Secure Underground Program (SSUP) is one of the many ways we are making our electric grid stronger and more storm-resilient for our customers. By replacing overhead neighborhood power lines with underground lines, we’re working to avoid a leading cause of power outages during hurricanes and severe weather - trees and vegetation coming into contact with overhead lines. We are excited to continue bringing the benefits of underground power lines to many more of our customers across Florida to support faster restoration after storms and improve reliability for our customers. Learn more about the program x Improving through undergrounding x Bringing undergrounding to your neighborhood x Learn about the SSUP construction process x Mejorando mediante el soterramiento x Llevar el soterramiento a su vecindario x Conozca el proceso de construcción Hardening SSUP is one of many “hardening” initiatives launched after the historic hurricane seasons of 2004-05, when seven hurricanes affected our customers. Storm Preparedness SSUP is included in our current Storm Protection Plan approved by the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC). Drilling We use low-impact directional boring, or horizontal drilling, to minimize disruptions to customer properties when installing underground power lines. Outreach At the beginning of a project, we conduct outreach to inform customers of the program and answer their questions. Benefits SSUP projects benefit all our customers by reducing restoration costs and outage times associated with extreme weather events. In the community FPL continues strengthening the grid with underground power lines Projects such as one we’re working on in Naples aim to improve the resiliency of the grid during hurricanes and severe weather. Learn more Informing our customers about SSUP Throughout the year, our customer outreach specialists host community meetings to inform customers of the benefits of participating in an SSUP project and what they can expect during the construction process. Informing your elected leaders Our team regularly communicates with towns, cities, municipalities and counties about the design, outreach, permitting and construction progress of SSUP projects in their jurisdictions. You may see us at your local, public meetings providing more information about projects in your area. Friendly faces in the neighborhood x Meet our team - Michael Flowers Michael, west region customer outreach lead, is proud to be part of a 30-strong team bringing the benefits of underground power lines to neighborhoods across Florida’s west coast. Read his story and learn more . What your neighbors are saying “Putting the power lines underground has improved reliability and peace of mind in our community. Our neighborhood has a lot of trees and we would often lose power during storms when branches would blow into overhead power lines. We were without power for a long time after Hurricane Irma. Placing the lines underground is much better.” - Tammi Hellinger, Pinecrest (Miami-Dade County) “It’s like a new world - fabulous. Every year trees were falling on the power lines and causing outages. We haven’t had any outages since FPL put in the underground lines in 2019. And the crews were courteous and professional and left my property like they were never here.” - Chris Johnson, Sarasota (Sarasota County) “Severe weather struck our area just one day after FPL brought our power lines underground. Looking at the significant damage we had on our property, including two snapped wooden poles that had been providing our power just two days prior, we likely would’ve been without power for days, if not weeks. My family went without power for almost two weeks when Hurricane Wilma struck almost two decades ago, so we know the importance of and work that goes into having power following severe weather." - Tim Caesar, Palm Bay (Brevard County) FAQs How do underground power lines perform during severe weather and day-to-day? Systemwide, underground neighborhood power lines performed about five to 14 times better than their overhead counterparts during the 2024 hurricane season (Hurricanes Debby, Helene and Milton). These lines perform approximately 50% better on a day-to-day basis. Why has my neighborhood been identified as a candidate for conversion? Neighborhoods are selected for the program based on criteria approved by the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), prioritizing areas that can most benefit from undergrounding. Selection criteria include: outages during hurricanes, vegetation-related outages and other reliability data. Why did a customer outreach specialist contact me about undergrounding my powerline? At the beginning of an SSUP project , we conduct outreach to inform customers of the program and answer their questions. You will receive a letter informing you of selection for electric conversion via SSUP - you may call that direct number or fill out this form should you have any questions. How do I identify a customer outreach specialist? FPL employees and contractors may occasionally knock on your door to inform you of projects, like the installation of underground power lines, but will never try to sell you a product. Always ask to see the FPL employee or contractor’s photo identification badge. If you would like to verify the identity of a customer outreach specialist, you may contact your local customer outreach lead by using the direct phone number provided in the informational packet you received by mail or by filling out this form . FPL SSUP employees are dressed in FPL uniforms, a safety vest and carry a badge Why did a customer outreach specialist request an easement on my property? We require an easement demonstrating your permission for us to enter your property to install, maintain, repair and/or replace underground power lines and other equipment , such as the examples below, including a padmounted transformer. The standard easement area for this project is 10 feet by 10 feet but may vary depending on field conditions. As part of the notarization process when signing an easement, a customer outreach specialist will ask you to verify your identity by presenting a valid form of identification, such as a driver's license. Is SSUP a scam? No. SSUP is a program approved by the Florida Public Service Commission to help improve grid resiliency during severe weather and also to enhance reliability day-to-day by replacing overhead neighborhood power lines with underground lines. Who pays for SSUP? There are no out-of-pocket upfront costs required for SSUP. Rather, the costs are recovered from all customers through a Storm Protection Plan monthly charge approved by the FPSC, which includes SSUP and several other storm-protection programs. To learn more about the Storm Protection Plan Cost Recovery Clause on an FPL residential customer bill, click here . What if I want my home or neighborhood to have underground service? Customers can engage with FPL to begin the overhead-to-underground conversion process at any time without needing to meet FPSC selection criteria. Unlike SSUP, the costs of voluntary undergrounding are paid by the municipalities or communities opting to convert their lines. Visit FPL.com/Undergrounding to learn more about voluntary undergrounding or click here for a comparison of our two undergrounding programs. What is a Junction Box Agreement (JBA)? Every customer participating in the underground conversion project will be asked to sign a Junction Box Acknowledgement (JBA). The JBA is not an easement and does not convey any legal interest in your property. It simply acknowledges that a junction box adapter may be installed adjacent to your existing meter can to facilitate the conversion from overhead electric service to underground electric service. Learn more about the JBA. The JBA does not grant FPL ownership rights, property rights, access rights or easement rights to your property. The agreement only confirms your consent for the conversion of your electric service. In addition, all residents will be asked to allow our team to take a photograph of their existing meter and meter can. These photographs will be reviewed by our design and construction teams to determine how your service can be converted and identify any site-specific conditions that may require additional review. What is an easement? An easement is written permission to enter onto property owned by another for a stated purpose, such as to install, maintain, repair and replace electric equipment. An easement is a formal legal document recorded in the public records of the county where the property is located. Not every customer will be asked to sign an easement. Easements are only requested where our design and construction teams determine that equipment such as transformers or other electrical facilities are needed to safely and efficiently serve the neighborhood. Learn more about easements. Contact us Our friendly customer outreach specialists are available and ready to answer all your questions about bringing underground power lines to your neighborhood. Contact us with any additional questions related to SSUP. Digital library Improving Through Undergrounding - English and Spanish Directional Boring - English and Spanish Junction Box Adapter - English and Spanish Typical Underground Equipment - English and Spanish Protecting Your Trees - English and Spanish Equipment for Special Circumstances - English and Spanish Understanding Easements - English and Spanish About FPL News Company Careers Environment Community Donate to Care To Share® Rates and Your Bill About Energy Energy My Way Ensuring Reliability Diverse Energy Sources Electric Vehicles Power Disturbances Safety Partner Resources Supplier Home and Login DSM Contractor Portal Fuel Portal Building and Construction Land Use Assist Agency Login WebTAXI Login Deposit Portal En Español INGLÉS ESPAÑOL Ahora la información que necesitas sobre tu servicio eléctrico está disponible en español en FPL.com. Facebook Twitter YouTube FPL Blog A NextEra Energy Company Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Safety Policy Feedback En Español Copyright © 2026, Florida Power & Light Company. All rights reserved. FPL.com is optimized for the following browsers and mobile operating systems: IE 9+, Firefox 31+, Chrome 37+, Safari 6.1+, Apple iOS 7+ and Android 4+. Our websites use technologies (e.g., cookies, pixels, and session replay technology) for site functionality, analytics, performance, fraud-detection, and targeted advertising. Your interactions and personal data may be collected on our websites by us and providers of these technologies (e.g., Meta, Google, LinkedIn) in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Using the website(s) will be treated as your consent to the practices in our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions .