SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 91

in greater annual energy production, which allows for a greater customer benefit from fuel savings and production tax credits. 2. Additional Battery Storage: At the end of 2021, a battery storage facility with a projected maximum output of 409 MW was placed in service at the existing Manatee plant site. This large battery storage facility is charged by solar energy from an existing nearby solar facility. Two 30 MW battery storage facilities were installed at two different locations in the FPL service area and put into service at the end of 2021. Both 30 MW battery storage facilities are also charged by existing solar facilities. In late 2025, seven 74.5 MW battery storage facilities were installed across the NWFL service area, totaling 521.5 MW of additional reliable capacity. Each facility is co-located with an existing solar site and charged directly by that site’s solar generation. In addition, the resource plan presented in this Site Plan projects that an additional 7,454 MW of battery storage facilities will be installed by 2035 throughout FPL’s service area. 3. Retirement of Existing Generating Units: The resource plan for the 2026 TYSP reflects the retirements of two units: Gulf Clean Energy Center Units 4 & 5. These units will be retired at the end of 2029. 4. Enhancements of Existing Generating Units: In previous Site Plans, FPL discussed plans to upgrade the CT components in several of FPL’s existing CC units. That upgrade effort is still included in the resource plan presented in this Site Plan. These additional upgrades are projected to be completed by 2028. Information regarding the specific units, timing, and magnitude of these upgrades is presented in Schedule 8 in this chapter. In addition, FPL implemented a pilot project that results in hydrogen replacing a portion of the natural gas that is currently being used to fuel the existing Okeechobee CC unit. In this pilot project, hydrogen is created by using solar energy, or other energy from the electric grid, to power an electrolyzer that separates water into hydrogen and oxygen (If the hydrogen is created using only solar or other renewable energy sources, the hydrogen is referred to as “green” hydrogen). The resulting hydrogen is then stored in on-site tanks until it is used as a fuel. The objective of the pilot project is to test, in practice, the concept of blending natural gas with hydrogen as a fuel for CC unit use. This pilot project went into service in late 2023. Florida Power & Light Company 77