SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 207

and learnings from them include: (i) a 1.5 MW battery in Miami-Dade County using second life automotive batteries for peak shaving and frequency response (found that high in-house integration costs coupled with low remaining capacity in second-life batteries do not support the business case), (ii) a 1.5 MW battery in Monroe County for backup power and voltage support (showcased the complexity of working with customer's equipment), (iii) a relocatable 0.75 MW uninterruptible power supply (UPS) battery at Trividia Health, Inc. in Broward County (provides consistent support to mitigate customer's momentary disruptions and reliability issues, but relocation is costly and requires high technical expertise), and (iv) smaller kilowatt- scale systems in several communities for distributed storage reliability (applications successfully provide reliability support for residential customers during grid events, but FPL found front-of-the-meter deployment is more expensive than behind the meter (BTM) installations). FPL decommissioned the 1.5 MW battery in in Miami-Dade County, the 0.75 MW UPS, and the small kilo-watt scale systems in several communities at the end of 2022. 2. Large Scale (50 MW) Storage Pilot Project: The small-scale battery storage pilot projects described above are complemented by up to 50 MW of additional battery projects. These pilot projects were authorized under the Settlement Agreement in FPL’s 2016 base rate case. The 50 MW of batteries that have been, and will continue, to be deployed in this larger pilot project have expanded the number of storage applications and configurations that FPL will be able to test and have made the scale of deployment more meaningful given the large size of FPL’s system. The first two storage projects under this pilot, placed in-service in the 1st Quarter of 2018, involve pairing battery storage with existing universal solar facilities. One of the projects is a 4 MW battery sited at FPL’s Citrus Solar Energy Center. This project captures clipped solar energy from the solar panels during high solar insolation hours, then releases this energy in other hours. The second project is a 10 MW battery at FPL’s Babcock Ranch Solar Energy Center. This project is designed to shift solar output from non-peak times to peak times and to provide “smoothing” of solar output and regulation services. These two projects are designed to enhance the operations of existing solar facilities that were installed in 2016. The data and lessons gathered from these two projects enable more optimized design configurations for solar-paired battery projects as well as improved operational parameters for economic dispatch. In 2021, FPL added an additional 1 MW to the existing Babcock Ranch Battery Storage System to test the design and performance of various battery augmentation solutions to mitigate degradation. Florida Power & Light Company 193