SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 26

for each MWh generated.2 The $31 per MWh credit amount for a new solar facility that comes in-service increases with inflation each year. In mid-2025, the One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA) was signed and changed the projection of future ITCs and PTCs. With this new bill enacted, all of FPL’s projected solar additions through 2026 will qualify for 100% of the PTC. FPL’s projected solar additions through 2030 will also still be eligible for the full PTC, as all of those sites come within the “Safe Harbor” guidelines that require construction to commence on or before one year of the enactment of the OBBBA. The additional solar units that are presented in this Site Plan through the remainder of the ten-year period will not be eligible for the PTC. The battery storage ITC has also been affected by the OBBBA, but the associated impacts occur on a different timeline. In terms of the resource additions in this Site Plan, all planned battery storage will still be eligible for the 30% ITC through 2035. FPL’s resource plan presented in this Site Plan accounts for the effects of these tax credits and the impact of the OBBBA. Factor # 2: The critical need to maintain a balance between load and generating capacity in specific regions of FPL’s service area, such as in NWFL and Southeastern Florida (Miami-Dade and Broward Counties). This balance has both reliability and economic implications for FPL’s system and customers, and it is a key reason that FPL has expanded generation and transmission in specific areas in the past. Factor # 3: The desire to maintain/enhance fuel diversity in the FPL system while considering system economics and reliability. Diversity is sought in terms of the types of fuel that FPL utilizes and how these fuels are transported to the locations of FPL’s generation units. The objective of fuel diversity is considered in light of economic impacts to FPL customers. For example, FPL is projecting the addition of significant amounts of cost-effective PV generation throughout the ten-year reporting period of this Site Plan. These PV additions enhance fuel diversity while at the same time allowing for the lowest cost generation resource to be constructed and operated. To enhance the reliability of these PV solar additions, FPL is planning to add cost-effective battery storage to maintain adequate generation and reserves at the time of the net system peak (FPL’s peak after accounting for solar generation). At the same time, FPL is continuing to retire generating units that are no longer cost-effective for FPL customers. In addition, FPL also seeks to further enhance the efficiency with which it uses natural gas to generate electricity and maintain the ability to use backup distillate oil that is stored on-site at many of FPL’s gas-fueled generating units for purposes of system reliability. All of the aforementioned additions enhance the overall fuel diversity of FPL’s system, which increases the energy independence of FPL’s customers in the State of Florida. 2 To illustrate the magnitude of the impact of the solar PTC, take a simple example of a 74.5 MW solar facility that produces approximately 150,000 MWh per year in 2026 (i.e., assuming a net capacity factor of 23%). The proposed solar PTC for that year would result in a tax credit of (150,000 MWh x $31/MWh =) $4.7 million. This first year tax credit would then be extended for nine more years while being adjusted for inflation. Florida Power & Light Company 12