SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 213

Future oil and natural gas prices, and to a lesser extent, coal prices, are inherently uncertain due to a significant number of unpredictable and uncontrollable drivers that influence the short- and long-term price of oil, natural gas, and coal. These drivers include U.S. and worldwide demand, production capacity, economic growth, environmental requirements, and politics. The inherent uncertainty and unpredictability of these factors today and in the future clearly underscore the need to develop a set of plausible oil, natural gas, and solid fuel (coal) price scenarios that will bound a reasonable set of long-term price outcomes. In this light, Low, Medium, and High price forecasts for fossil fuels were developed in anticipation of the 2026 resource planning work. FPL’s Medium price forecast methodology is consistent for oil and natural gas. For oil and natural gas commodity prices, FPL’s Medium price forecast applies the following methodology: a. For the then-current plus two years (2025-2027), the methodology used the September 2025 forward curve for New York Harbor 0.5% sulfur heavy oil, WTI Crude Oil, Ultra-Low Sulfur Diesel (ULSD) fuel oil, and Henry Hub natural gas commodity prices (As S&P Global no longer publishes a Long Term forecast for 0.7% Sulfur Heavy Oil, FPL now forecasts a 0.5% Sulfur heavy oil price using a combination of market quotes and 1% Sulfur heavy oil price forecasts); b. For the next two years (2028 and 2029), FPL used a 50/50 blend of the September 2025 forward curve and the most current projections at the time from S&P Global (formerly called The PIRA Energy Group); c. For the 2030-2050 period, FPL used the annual projections from S&P Global for oil and natural gas commodity prices; d. For the period beyond 2050 for oil and natural gas, FPL used the real rate of escalation from the Energy Information Administration (EIA). In addition to the development of oil and natural gas commodity prices, nominal price forecasts also were prepared for oil and natural gas transportation costs. The addition of commodity and transportation forecasts resulted in delivered price forecasts. FPL’s Medium price forecast methodology is also consistent for coal prices. FPL uses a combination of actual coal purchases, current market quotes provided to FPL, Long Term PRB Coal price forecast up to 2050 from S&P Global and rail rate growth from historical data to build a coal price forecast for Plant Scherer. Florida Power & Light Company 199