SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 204

a. Voluntary, Community-Based Solar Partnership Pilot Program: The Voluntary Solar Pilot Program, named FPL SolarNow™, provides FPL customers with a flexible opportunity to support solar power in Florida. The FPSC approved FPL’s request for this three-year pilot program in Order No. PSC-14-0468-TRF-EI on August 29, 2014. The pilot program’s tariff became effective in January 2015. The final program disposition and five-year extension of the pilot was approved on December 1, 2020, by the FPSC in Order No. PSC-2020-0508-TRF-EI, and the program has sunset on December 31, 2025. This pilot program provided all customers the opportunity to support bringing solar projects into local communities by funding the construction of solar facilities in local public areas, such as parks, zoos, schools, and museums. Customers were formally able to participate in the program through voluntary contributions of $9/month. At conclusion of the program on December 31, 2025, there were 29,496 participants enrolled in the Voluntary Solar Pilot Program. Now that the program has concluded, the remaining installed 83 projects located in 34 communities within the FPL service area will continue to be managed utilizing shareholder funding and according to approved lease provisions. These remaining projects represent approximately 2,520 kW-DC of PV generation. In addition to the SolarNow™ pilot program, FPL has also installed 121.6 kW (DC) of distributed solar generators at eight different locations and 5.4 kW (DC) of non-grid tied solar throughout the FPL NWFL territory. b. C&I Solar Partnership Pilot Program: This pilot program was conducted in partnership with interested commercial and industrial customers over an approximately five-year period and expired in 2020. Limited investments were made in PV facilities located at customer sites on selected distribution circuits within FPL’s service area. The primary objective was to examine the effect of high localized PV penetration on FPL’s distribution system and to determine how best to address any problems that may be identified. FPL installed approximately 3.8 MW of PV facilities on circuits that experience specific loading conditions to better study feeder loading impacts, with approximately 3.4 MW remaining in operation. In addition, FPL evaluated the integration of solar into urban areas to test its impact on the distribution system on feeders that are heavily loaded. Florida Power & Light Company 190