SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/reliability.html

FPL | Reliability | Ensuring Reliable Service Skip to Main Content /content/fplgp/us/en/reliability.html Which region would you like to access today? FPL OR FPL Northwest FL CONTINUE Ensuring Reliable Service We’re working every day to provide reliable electricity during good weather and bad. FPL is one of the most reliable electric utilities in the country. As we have for decades, we continue to build a stronger, smarter and more storm-resilient electric grid for our customers. These enhancements include: Expanding our Storm Secure Underground Program - since 2018, we’ve improved service reliability by systemically installing more resilient underground power lines, and plan to bring these benefits to more neighborhoods in the years to come. Investing in smart grid technology that helps us restore power faster following hurricanes and severe weather, and avoid outages altogether. Smart grid technology helped avoid more than 800,000 customer outages combined during Hurricanes Debby, Helene and Milton in 2024. Integrating this self-healing smart grid technology that has helped FPL avoid millions of customer interruptions since 2011 into our underground neighborhood lines. Continuing to harden the grid by strengthening main power lines throughout the state and lines that may serve critical community facilities, such as hospitals and 911 call centers. And using artificial-intelligence technology to identify, maintain and limit the impact of trees and debris that make contact with FPL equipment . Together, these efforts have helped us improve your service reliability - and we’re not stopping there. We’ll continue innovating to make the grid even more reliable, providing you with energy you can depend on while keeping bills as low as possible. Improving Our Systems We're investing to make our infrastructure stronger every day, in good weather and bad. Learn More Trees and Power Lines When trees grow into or near power lines, they can cause power interruptions. Learn how our program helps prevent damage to the electric system. Learn More Storm Secure Underground A data-driven program to enhance the resiliency of the energy grid by replacing overhead power lines with more reliable underground lines in a cost-effective way. Learn More Underground Conversion Determine if underground service is right for you. Learn More Over 15 million lightning strikes occurred in Florida in 2024. 1 Get FPL Home 2 surge protection for your home appliances and coverage for your electronics. Protect my home ¹ https://www.xweather.com/annual-lightning-report ²FPL HOME IS AN UNREGULATED SUBSIDIARY OF FORIDA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY (FPL). The above surgeprotection programs are offered by FPL Home, and not FPL About FPL News Company Careers Environment Community Donate to Care To Share® Rates and Your Bill About Energy Energy My Way Ensuring Reliability Diverse Energy Sources Electric Vehicles Power Disturbances Safety Partner Resources Supplier Home and Login DSM Contractor Portal Fuel Portal Building and Construction Land Use Assist Agency Login WebTAXI Login Deposit Portal En Español INGLÉS ESPAÑOL Ahora la información que necesitas sobre tu servicio eléctrico está disponible en español en FPL.com. Facebook Twitter YouTube FPL Blog A NextEra Energy Company Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Safety Policy Feedback En Español Copyright © 2026, Florida Power & Light Company. All rights reserved. FPL.com is optimized for the following browsers and mobile operating systems: IE 9+, Firefox 31+, Chrome 37+, Safari 6.1+, Apple iOS 7+ and Android 4+. Our websites use technologies (e.g., cookies, pixels, and session replay technology) for site functionality, analytics, performance, fraud-detection, and targeted advertising. Your interactions and personal data may be collected on our websites by us and providers of these technologies (e.g., Meta, Google, LinkedIn) in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Using the website(s) will be treated as your consent to the practices in our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions .