SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 93

can also account for the value of being part of an interconnected system with access to multiple capacity sources. For this reason, probabilistic methodologies have been used to provide an additional perspective on the reliability of a generating system and are used to perform system reliability analyses. Among the most widely used is LOLP, which FPL’s resource planning group utilizes. Simply stated, LOLP is an index of how well a generating system may be able to meet its firm demand (i.e., a measure of how often load may exceed available resources). In contrast to reserve margin, the calculation of LOLP looks at the daily peak demands for each year, while taking into consideration such probabilistic events as the unavailability of individual generators due to scheduled maintenance or forced outages. LOLP is expressed in terms of the projected probability that a utility will be unable to meet its entire firm load at some point during a year. The probability of not being able to meet the firm load is calculated for each day of the year using the daily peak hourly load. These daily probabilities are then summed to develop an annual probability value. This annual probability value is commonly expressed as “the number of days per year” that the system firm load could not be met. The standard for LOLP used by FPL’s resource planning group is a maximum of 0.1 day per year which is commonly accepted throughout the industry. This analysis requires a more complicated calculation methodology than the reserve margin analysis. LOLP analyses are typically carried out using computer software models, such as the Tie Line Assistance and Generation Reliability (TIGER) program used by FPL. Recently, FPL has expanded usage of its LOLP criterion by utilizing a stochastic approach to LOLP modeling. As FPL’s system continues to incorporate additional cost-effective intermittent solar generation, the Company is continuing to adapt its resource planning to ensure that customers’ reliability needs are met through available, dispatchable resources that provide value to customers. Just as FPL’s system has advanced and modernized over time, resource adequacy must also be modernized to consider evolving conditions that affect the delivery of power in times of greatest need. To that end, FPL retained an independent third-party consulting firm, E3 Consulting, to perform a comprehensive, stochastic LOLP analysis in 2025 to ensure that FPL’s proposed system additions optimally address system needs for each hour of the year. FPL’s incorporation of cost-effective solar has increased to the extent that the peak hour of the year - i.e., the hour of greatest demand on the system - is no longer the most critical hour for determining reliability need. Now, the most critical time for capacity on FPL’s system is at peak net Florida Power & Light Company 79