SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 64

3. Industrial Sales The projected industrial class energy sales were also forecasted using both econometric and exponential smoothing models. Industrial energy sales were expressed as either energy sales per customer or energy sales per customer per bill day. The resulting forecasts were then multiplied by bill days and/or customers to arrive at the billed energy sales forecasts. Energy usage for FPL’s small and medium industrial customers (industrial customers on rate GS) was forecasted using an econometric model which included a lag dependent variable and binary variables while energy usage for large industrial customers was forecasted using an exponential smoothing model. FPL NWFL’s industrial energy usage was forecasted using an exponential smoothing model. The industrial lighting sales forecast was developed using inputs from FPL’s lighting team. These forecasts were then added together to arrive at the total industrial sales forecast. The total industrial sales forecast was adjusted to reflect the impact of very large demand, high load factor customers projected to take service on the FPL system during the planning period beginning in 2028. For potential new customers with significant or unique load requirements, FPL’s historical practice is to include the associated load in the forecast only after FPL and the customer have reached a definitive agreement or other binding commitment to extend service to the customer. Currently, there are no definitive agreements in place or other binding commitments between FPL and any large power users. However, based on discussions with potential large power users, FPL believes there is a high probability for customers with significant load requirements to be served on the FPL system beginning in 2028 with total load growing to approximately 3 GW by 2035. 2026 industrial energy sales for the integrated system are projected to be 3.5% of sales to ultimate consumers and are projected to grow at an average annual rate of 21.1% over the forecast period. 4. Railroad & Railways Sales and Street and Highway Sales The Railroad & Railway class consists solely of Miami-Dade County’s Metrorail system. The Railroad & Railways sales forecast was developed using a regression model which included monthly binary variables and autoregressive terms. The forecast inputs for Street and Highway sales forecasts were provided by FPL’s lighting team. Florida Power & Light Company 50