SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 69

reflecting the Winter peak demand reduction associated with load diversity. The Winter peak demand for the integrated system is projected to occur in January. FPL developed P50 normal weather Winter peak loads using two econometric models, one each for the FPL and FPL NWFL areas. The model for FPL expressed Winter peak load as peak load per customer and included weather variables, employment, and binary variables. The projected peak load per customer was multiplied by the customer forecast to arrive at the projected Winter peak load. The projections were then adjusted for the expected changes in loads resulting from private solar, plug-in EVs, wholesale requirements, and the expected addition of large loads to arrive at the forecasted normal weather Winter peak load. The model for FPL NWFL expressed Winter peak load as peak load and included weather, population, and peak load reductions from changes in energy efficiency codes and standards. The projected load was then adjusted for the expected changes in loads resulting from private solar and plug-in EVs to arrive at the forecasted normal weather Winter peak load. 3. Monthly Peak Forecasts The forecasting process for the monthly peaks assumes the Summer peak for FPL occurs in the month of August while the Summer peak for FPL NWFL occurs in the month of July. It also assumes that the Winter peak for both areas occur in the month of January. Finally, the remaining monthly peaks are forecasted based on the historical relationship between the monthly peaks and the annual Summer peak. The monthly peak demand forecasts for the integrated system for 2026 and beyond are the highest hourly demand by month from the integrated system hourly forecasts. This approach ensures the integrated monthly peak demand forecast reflects the growth in monthly peaks as well as the monthly peak demand reductions associated with load diversity. The Summer peak for the integrated FPL system occurs in August because of the large size of the FPL Legacy area. The Winter peak for the integrated FPL system occurs in January. II.F. Hourly Load Forecast The forecasted values for system hourly load on the integrated system were the summation of the FPL Legacy and FPL NWFL hourly load for the period. The FPL NWFL system hourly load was adjusted from Central to Eastern time zone to be consistent with FPL Legacy’s system hourly load. Florida Power & Light Company 55