SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 25

Turkey Point Units 3 & 4 through 2052 and 2053, respectively, and St. Lucie Units 1 & 2 through 2056 and 2063, respectively. Regarding potential future nuclear additions, in June 2009, FPL began the process of securing Combined Operating Licenses (COL) from the federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) for two future nuclear units, Turkey Point Units 6 & 7, that would be sited at FPL’s Turkey Point site (the location of two existing nuclear generating units). In April 2018, FPL received NRC approval for these two COLs, and these licenses currently remain valid with the earliest possible in-service dates for Turkey Point 6 & 7 beyond the ten-year period addressed in this 2026 Site Plan. FPL is also continuing to monitor advanced nuclear power options such as small modular reactors (SMR). To prepare for the potential future commercial viability of SMRs, FPL plans to begin the initial stages of Early Site Permitting, available under NRC rules, in the 2026-2027 timeframe for a potential SMR at a site adjacent to an existing nuclear power plant. This strategic move is aimed at minimizing risks, allowing emerging technologies to mature, and enabling robust and well-developed regulatory frameworks prior to deployment, while remaining cognizant of the current high costs of nuclear and SMR development and taking a stepwise approach. FPL is closely monitoring current initiatives at both the U.S. Department of Energy and the NRC. By taking these steps early on, FPL aims to be well-positioned to benefit from future nuclear deployment. The projected in- service date of an SMR would be outside the ten-year period addressed in this Site Plan. III. Other Factors Influencing FPL’s Resource Planning Work: There are a number of factors that have influenced, or which may influence, FPL’s resource planning work. Eleven total factors are summarized below. These additional factors are presented in no particular order, and their potential influences on FPL’s resource planning work are further discussed in Chapters II and III. Factor # 1: Impacts of Tax Credits for Batteries and Solar. FPL’s resource planning work continues to factor in tax credits for new utility-owned batteries and solar, as well as recent changes in the long-term deployment of these credits. For new utility-owned standalone batteries, the 30% Investment Tax Credit (ITC) effectively lowers the capital cost for a new battery, with the potential of an additional 10% if the battery is located in a specific area. For new utility-owned solar, a utility can elect a Production Tax Credit (PTC) for new solar that is based on the amount of energy (MWh) the new solar facility generates each year for the first ten years of operation. For future resource additions, the PTC rate in 2026 starts at $31 Florida Power & Light Company 11