SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 100

These solar additions enhance fuel diversity while at the same time allowing for the lowest cost generation resource to be constructed and operated. To enhance the reliability of these solar additions, FPL is planning to add cost-effective battery storage to ensure adequate generation and reserves at the time of the net system peak (FPL’s peak after accounting for solar generation). In the past, coal-fired units have been examined as an option to increase system fuel diversity. However, coal units have ceased to be viable generation options for a number of reasons which include: (i) increased economic competitiveness of solar and battery storage, (ii) much lower forecasted costs for natural gas, (iii) increased availability of natural gas, and (iv) environmental regulations regarding coal units. Consequently, FPL does not believe that new advanced technology coal units are viable fuel diversity enhancement options in Florida. Therefore, FPL has focused on: (i) cost-effectively adding solar energy and battery storage to enhance fuel diversity and independence, (ii) diversifying the sources of natural gas, (iii) diversifying the gas transportation paths used to deliver natural gas to FPL’s generating units, (iv) using natural gas more efficiently, and (v) expanding the ability of its units to burn liquid fuel as a backup to natural gas. FPL has also launched a pilot project that tests the concept of using green hydrogen as a substitute for some of the natural gas now being used to fuel one of its existing CC units. Solar Energy: The resource plan in this 2026 Site Plan projects that FPL will have a total of approximately 20,225 MW of solar generation by the end of 2035. Such a level of solar nameplate capacity would represent about 55% of FPL’s current total installed capacity (MW). However, the impact of solar contribution in terms of actual energy produced (MWh) is smaller. Because solar energy can only be generated during daylight hours and is impacted by factors such as clouds and rain, solar has a capacity factor of approximately 23% to 30% in the state of Florida. As a result, FPL’s solar additions would be projected to supply approximately 26% of the total energy (MWh) delivered in 2035 (as shown in Schedule 6.2 later in this chapter).7 Based on the resource plan presented in this 2026 Site Plan, it is projected that by 2035 approximately 26% of all energy produced on FPL’s system will be from solar. This percentage of energy that is projected to be delivered by solar energy is significant for a utility system of FPL’s size, especially when considering that the total amount of energy projected to be delivered to customers in 2035 will have also increased by approximately 23%. The projections of energy by fuel/generation type are presented in Schedules 6.1 and 6.2 later in this chapter. Florida Power & Light Company 86