SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 211

III.G Fuel Mix and Fuel Price Forecasts 1. FPL Fuel Mix FPL’s fuel mix since the early 1990s has seen a steady increase in the amount of natural gas, which FPL uses to produce electricity due, in part, to the introduction of highly efficient and cost-effective CC units and the ready availability of abundant, U.S.-produced natural gas. Since 2001, FPL has focused on modernizing its gas-fired generation fleet by modernizing existing units and adding CC units to its generation mix. These new CC units have dramatically improved the efficiency of FPL’s generation system in general and, more specifically, the efficiency with which natural gas is utilized as discussed in the Executive Summary. In regard to access to alternative fuel availability, the addition of four CTs at the Gulf Clean Energy Center in 2021, capable of burning natural gas or ULSD oil, has also provided additional fuel diversity and reliability. FPL has also taken measures over the last few years to eliminate the use of coal as a fuel. FPL shuttered Cedar Bay in 2016, St. Johns River Power Park in 2018, the Indiantown Co-Gen coal-fueled unit in late 2020, and the Scherer 4 unit on January 1, 2022. The conversion of the Gulf Clean Energy Center to natural gas in 2020, plus the retirement of FPL’s ownership portion of the Daniel Units 1 & 2 in January 2024 demonstrates a continued commitment to eliminate coal from the generation portfolio. In addition, FPL increased its utilization of nuclear energy through capacity uprates of its four existing nuclear units. With these uprates, more than 500 MW of additional nuclear capacity have been added to the FPL system. As mentioned previously, FPL has obtained the COLs from the NRC for two new nuclear units, Turkey Point Units 6 & 7. FPL has now paused this process to decide when to pursue approval from the FPSC to proceed to construction. A significant amount of additional solar is projected in the current resource plan as discussed throughout this Site Plan. These solar additions will increase solar as a percentage of FPL’s generation from 11% in 2025 to 26% in 2035. Ongoing resource planning work will continue to focus on identifying and evaluating alternatives that would most cost-effectively maintain and/or enhance long-term fuel diversity and resiliency. These fuel-diverse alternatives may include additional solar energy facilities; Florida Power & Light Company 197