SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 97

economic analyses of resource plans. Other spreadsheet models may also be used to further analyze the resource plans. The basic economic analyses of the competing resource plans focus on total system economics. The standard basis for comparing the economics of competing resource plans is their relative impact on electricity rate levels, with the general objective of minimizing the projected levelized system average electric rate (i.e., a Rate Impact Measure or RIM methodology). In analyses in which the DSM contribution has already been determined through the same IRP process and/or FPSC approval, and therefore the only competing options are new generating units and/or purchase options, comparisons of the impacts of competing resource plans on both electricity rates and system revenue requirements will yield identical outcomes in regard to the relative rankings of the resource options being evaluated. Consequently, the competing options and resource plans in such cases can be evaluated on a system cumulative present value revenue requirement (CPVRR) basis. FPL’s resource planning group also includes other factors in its evaluation of resource options and resource plans. Although these factors may have an economic component or impact, they are often discussed in quantitative but non-economic terms, such as percentages, tons, etc., rather than in terms of dollars. These factors are often referred to as “system concerns or factors,” which include reducing emissions, maintaining/enhancing fuel diversity, and maintaining a regional balance between load and generating capacity, particularly in the Southeastern region of FPL’s area that consists of Miami-Dade and Broward counties. In conducting the evaluations needed to determine which resource options and resource plans are best for the utility system, the non-economic evaluations are conducted with an eye to whether the system concern is positively or negatively impacted by a given resource option or resource plan. These and other factors are discussed later in this chapter in section III.C. Step 4: Finalizing the Current Resource Plan The results of the previous three fundamental steps are typically used to develop a new or updated resource plan. The current resource plan presented in this 2026 Site Plan is summarized in the following section. Florida Power & Light Company 83