SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 30

performance. Therefore, FPL has expanded use of its LOLP metric to include stochastic modeling that fully encompasses all of these scenarios, leading to a more robust evaluation of the reliability and resource adequacy of FPL’s system. FPL’s planned resources in this Site Plan address resource adequacy concerns by adding a variety of resources throughout the ten-year period that results in a robust, reliable, and cost- effective system to serve FPL’s customers. This expanded methodology is discussed more thoroughly in Chapter III. Factor # 11: Future impacts of large load customers. Over the past several years, large load customers with high load factors have grown extensively throughout the U.S. These customers have expressed interest in establishing operations within Florida, which would greatly impact the demand and energy in FPL’s future forecast. FPL’s current load projections assume that demand from large load customers will materialize starting in 2028 and reach a peak demand of 3 GW by 2035. FPL’s projections of demand and energy (and the associated resources needed to meet this demand) factor in this increase in load. FPL will continually examine the projected impacts of this demand on its future resource needs. Each of these factors described above will continue to be examined in FPL’s ongoing resource planning processes in 2026 and future years. IV. FPL’s Projected Resource Plan: FPL’s projected resource plan for the 2026 Site Plan is shown below. Regarding the resources projected in the Site Plan, final decisions have not been made regarding many of the resource additions shown, nor are such decisions needed at this time. This is particularly so for the resource additions shown for years 2030 through 2035, which are further out in the planning horizon. Consequently, resource additions shown for these later years have an increased likelihood for change in future planning. Florida Power & Light Company 16