SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 19

Executive Summary This Site Plan addresses projected electric power generation resource additions and retirements for FPL for the years 2026 through 2035. I. Background / Overview of FPL’s 2026 Site Plan This 2026 Site Plan presents the current plans to augment and enhance the electric generation capability of the FPL system to meet projected incremental resource needs for a reliable and economic electric system for 2026 through 2035. As demand for electricity continues to increase in FPL’s service area and extreme weather events occur with more frequency (as reflected in recent storm activity and peak load events), it is more important than ever that FPL has sufficient resources to meet continued growth, maintain adequate reserves, and provide reliable energy at all times. In order to meet these needs economically, FPL is planning the following actions during the ten-year reporting period of this document: 1) Install 12,293 MW of cost-effective, solar generation - These solar additions will generate reliable energy using no fuel, which mitigates the commodity price risk to customers, enhances fuel diversity and helps secure Florida’s energy independence. 2) Install 7,454 MW of battery storage - As a complement to FPL’s planned solar additions, FPL is planning to deploy 7,454 MW of battery storage, which provides cost-effective capacity, regardless of the time of day or the weather conditions. These additions enable energy that is produced at the lowest cost to be stored and delivered when needed most. Storage acts as a key resource that improves system reliability and resource adequacy by addressing the evening peak cost-effectively. 3) Incorporate the purchase of the 672 MW Vandolah unit into FPL’s generating fleet - FPL received Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) approval for the purchase of this plant in December of 2025. Starting June 1, 2027, this plant will begin providing capacity and energy for FPL’s customers. 4) Develop natural gas capacity for in-service dates from 2032 through 2035 - Solar and battery storage remain the most cost-effective resource options, as well as the only viable options, to meet FPL’s needs in the near term. However, long-term trends in load growth require FPL to continually examine other options to provide resource adequacy to its customers when they need it most. Consequently, FPL projects 3,276 MW of combustion turbine (CT) capacity coming online from 2032 through 2035. Florida Power & Light Company 5