SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 196

Department of Energy award for innovation and led to a revision of the Florida Model Energy Building Code which was the incorporation of one of the most significant passive design techniques highlighted in the program: radiant barrier insulation. FPL has continued to analyze and promote PV utilization. These efforts have included PV research, such as the 1991 research project to evaluate the feasibility of using small PV systems to directly power residential swimming pool pumps. FPL’s PV efforts also included educational efforts, such as FPL’s Next Generation Solar Station Program. This initiative delivered teacher training and curriculum that was tied to the Sunshine Teacher Standards in Florida. The program provided teacher grants to promote and fund projects in the classrooms. Gulf Power (Gulf) offered customers the opportunity to contribute to the development of solar beginning with the Solar for Schools program in its 1995 DSM Plan. This voluntary program ultimately developed multiple PV installations in schools across Northwest Florida and was used primarily for educational purposes. In 1999, Gulf offered customers an additional opportunity through an optional rate rider. The PV Rate Rider program was intended to give customers an opportunity to contribute towards the construction of a solar facility along with other customers across the Southern Company territory. In 2008, Gulf received FPSC approval to offer an experimental solar water heating program. This program was intended to help customers overcome the high initial cost of adopting solar thermal water heating technology. The program spanned three years and was absorbed into a larger portfolio of renewable program offerings in Gulf’s 2010 DSM Plan. In 2009, as part of its DSM Goals decision, the FPSC imposed a requirement for Florida’s investor-owned utilities to spend up to a certain capped amount annually to facilitate demand- side solar water heater and PV applications. The annual spending caps for these applications over the five-year period was approximately $15.5 million per year for FPL and approximately $576,000 per year for Gulf. In response to this direction, FPL received approval from the FPSC in 2011 to initiate a solar pilot portfolio consisting of three PV-based programs and three solar water heating-based programs, plus a Renewable Research and Demonstration project. Gulf received similar approval from the FPSC in 2011 to initiate a solar pilot portfolio consisting of two PV-based programs and two solar water heating-based programs. Analyses of the results by both FPL and Gulf from these pilot programs since their inception consistently showed that none of these pilot programs were cost-effective for customers using any of the three cost- effectiveness screening tests used by the State of Florida. As a result, consistent with the Florida Power & Light Company 182