SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 24

other options to provide resource adequacy to its customers when they need it the most. Consequently, FPL projects 3,276 MW of new CT capacity coming online in 2032 through 2035. Modernization of FPL’s Existing Fossil-Fueled Generation: For several years, FPL has undertaken a variety of measures to modernize its fossil-fueled generation fleet based on cost-effectiveness. These efforts have resulted in substantial enhancements to the fleet of generating units, including improved system fuel efficiency and increased capacity, reduced system air emission rates, and dramatically reduced fuel-related costs for FPL customers. FPL plans to continue these efforts and to further improve the efficiency and capabilities of FPL’s generation fleet through two principal initiatives: (i) retirement of existing generating units that are no longer economic to operate, and (ii) enhancements to existing generating units. These modernization efforts are separately described below. (i) Retirement of Existing Generating Units That Are No Longer Economic to Operate: The resource plan for the 2026 TYSP reflects the retirement of two units: Gulf Clean Energy Center Units 4 & 5. These units will be retired at the end of 2029. (ii) Enhancements to Existing Generating Units: In previous Site Plans, FPL discussed plans to upgrade the CT components in a number of FPL’s existing combined cycle units to continue to add additional summer capacity and improve the overall fuel efficiency of the fleet. These upgrade efforts remain a part of FPL’s resource planning in this Site Plan. Information regarding the specific units, timing, and magnitude of these upgrades is presented in Schedule 8 in Chapter III. Nuclear Energy: Nuclear energy remains an important factor in FPL’s resource planning due to its combination of low fuel cost, around-the-clock operation, and location close to major load centers. FPL’s current nuclear fleet consists of four nuclear units located at two sites within its service area. In total, these sites provide approximately 3,500 MW of summer capacity and, in 2025, provided 29,483 GWh of energy to FPL’s system. This amount of energy represented roughly 20% of FPL’s generation in 2025. In order for these units to continue to provide around-the-clock energy to FPL’s customers, FPL secured Subsequent License Renewals (SLR) for both units at Turkey Point and is in the process of securing SLRs for both units at St. Lucie. More detailed information on these re-licensing efforts is available in Chapter III. For purposes of this Site Plan, FPL’s resource planning analyses have assumed the continued operation of Florida Power & Light Company 10