SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 60

II. Forecast of Electric Power Demand II.A. Overview of the Load Forecasting Process The load forecasting team developed the long-term forecasts of customers, sales, net energy for load (NEL), and peak demands presented in this 2026 Site Plan. These forecasts are utilized throughout this 2026 Site Plan and are key inputs in the resource planning analyses that led to the integrated resource plans presented in this document. The forecasts are developed annually and use consistent methodologies for both the FPL Legacy and FPL NWFL areas. The forecasts for the integrated system are developed by combining the forecasts for the FPL Legacy and FPL NWFL areas. FPL has used the same methodology and approach for its long-term Site Plan forecasts since 2021. The load forecasting team will continue to evaluate and implement appropriate enhancements to the forecasting methodologies for upcoming forecasts as necessary. The following pages describe how the forecasts of customers, sales, NEL, and peak loads were initially developed separately for the FPL Legacy and FPL NWFL areas and then combined into a single set of forecasts for the integrated system. This approach is required because the historical data for the integrated system was not available prior to FPL and Gulf Power’s consolidation. Similar to previous forecasts, the drivers for the forecasts include household growth, economic conditions, electricity prices, weather, and energy efficiency codes and standards. The forecasts for customers, energy sales, NEL, and summer peak demands are 50% probability (P50) forecasts, which means there is a 50% probability that actual results will be either higher or lower than the forecast. The projections for population growth, Florida Gross State Product, and other economic variables are obtained from S&P Global, a leading economic forecasting firm that has been previously used by FPL. Additionally, the projections for electric vehicle adoption and impact come from Bloomberg New Energy Finance and Wood Mackenzie, while the projections for private solar adoption and impact are from Wood Mackenzie. Both Bloomberg and Wood Mackenzie are well known for their financial and energy forecasts. Using statistical models, these inputs are quantified in terms of their impact on the respective forecasts. Florida Power & Light Company 46