SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 61

Weather is a key factor that affects energy sales and peak demand. The weather variables for use in the forecasting models are as follows: 1. The residential and commercial energy models incorporate heating degree hours and/or cooling degree hours. The threshold temperatures differ based on how each customer group responds to temperatures. 2. The Summer peak demand models incorporate minimum and maximum temperatures of the peak Summer day, while the Winter peak demand models incorporate minimum temperatures on the peak Winter day and the buildup of heating degree hours on the day prior to the peak day. Additional details are provided later in this chapter. The weather variables used in the FPL models are based on a composite hourly temperature from the following weather stations: Miami, Fort Myers, Daytona Beach, and West Palm Beach. The temperatures for each weather station are weighted based on the energy sales associated with that region. The resulting composite temperatures are then used to derive the cooling degree hours and heating degree hours used in the energy models as well as the peak day temperatures used in the Summer and Winter peak demand models. The weather variables used in the FPL NWFL models are based on the hourly temperatures from the Pensacola weather station. The Pensacola hourly temperatures are then used to derive the cooling degree hours and heating degree hours used in the energy models, the peak day cooling degree hours used in the Summer peak demand model, and the temperatures used in the Winter peak demand model. II.B. Customer Forecasts The customer forecasts for the integrated system for 2026 and beyond are the sum of the respective class-level customer forecasts for the FPL and FPL NWFL areas. The class-level customer forecasts were developed using a combination of regression models, exponential smoothing models, and inputs regarding wholesale contracts. The statistical models were developed using the software package MetrixND. The methods and tools used to develop the customer forecasts are consistent with those used in prior Site Plans, with routine updates to include additional historical data and updated economic projections, along with minor changes to model specifications. The residential customer forecasts were developed using regression models which include Florida Gross State Product, lag dependent variables, and binary variables. The commercial customer Florida Power & Light Company 47