SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 90

Step 1: Determine the Magnitude and Timing of New Resource Needs: The first of the four resource planning steps is essentially a determination of the amount and timing of MW load reduction, new capacity additions, or a combination of both, which are needed to maintain and/or enhance system reliability. This step is often referred to as a reliability assessment for the utility system. This analysis typically starts with an updated load forecast. Several databases are also updated in this first fundamental step, not only with the new information regarding forecasted loads, but also with other information that is used throughout other aspects of FPL’s resource planning process. Examples of this new information include: delivered fuel price projections, current financial and economic assumptions, current power plant capability and operating assumptions, costs of new resource additions, and current DSM demand and energy reduction assumptions. FPL’s process also includes key sets of projections regarding three specific types of resources: (1) generating unit capacity changes, (2) firm capacity PPAs, and (3) DSM implementation. Key Assumptions Regarding the Three Types of Resources: Generating Unit Capacity Additions: The first set of assumptions, generating unit capacity changes, is based on current projections of new generating capacity additions and planned retirements of existing generating units. In this 2026 Site Plan, there are four types of projected generation capacity changes through the ten-year reporting time frame of this document. These changes are listed below in general chronological order: 1. Additional Solar Energy Facilities: In this 2026 Site Plan, the resource plan projects the addition of approximately 12,293 MW of new solar generation during the 2026-2035 period. These additions are projected to be sited throughout FPL’s service area. These projected solar additions for 2026-2035, when combined with solar additions made prior to 2026, will result in a total of approximately 20,225 MW of total installed utility solar by the end of 2035. All solar projected to be added from 2026-2035 is “tracking” solar. In fixed-tilt solar configurations, the solar panels remain facing the same angle, while tracking solar changes the angle of the solar panels to follow the path of the sun during the day, generally resulting Florida Power & Light Company 76