SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 107

III.D Demand-Side Management (DSM) FPL has sought and implemented cost-effective DSM programs since 1978. As such, cost-effective DSM has been a key focus of FPL’s resource planning work for more than 40 years. During that time, FPL’s DSM programs have included many energy efficiency and load management programs and initiatives. There are several important factors affecting the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of utility DSM programs. The first factor is the growing impact of federal and state energy efficiency codes and standards. As discussed first in Chapters I and II, and earlier in Section III.C above, the projected incremental impacts of these energy efficiency codes and standards during the 2026-2035 time period has significantly lowered FPL’s projected load and resource needs. In addition, these energy efficiency codes and standards significantly reduce the potential for cost-effective utility DSM programs. Another factor placing downward pressure on the cost-effectiveness of utility DSM on the FPL system is the increasing efficiency with which FPL generates electricity. FPL’s generating system has steadily become more efficient in its ability to generate electricity using less fossil fuel. For example, the FPL system is projected to use 27% less fossil fuel to generate a MWh in 2026 than it did in 2001. Again, this benefits FPL’s customers by helping to significantly lower fuel costs and electric rates. However, the improvements in generating system efficiency affect DSM cost- effectiveness by lowering the system fuel costs of energy delivered to FPL’s customers. Therefore, the improvements in generating system efficiency reduce the potential fuel savings benefits from the kWh reduction impacts of DSM, thus lowering potential DSM benefits and DSM cost- effectiveness. As FPL adds more solar to its system, the overall efficiency of its system will continue to improve. Although the efficiency of FPL’s system reduces possible benefits from DSM, FPL will continue to look for innovations and opportunities to cost-effectively empower customers and add system benefits through its DSM programs in the future. In 2024, new DSM goals for the period 2025-2034 were approved in Docket No. 20240012-EG. FPL filed a DSM Plan to achieve these goals in March 2025, which the PSC approved with modifications. The DSM impacts contained in this Site Plan reflect the demand and energy impacts associated with the currently approved goals and the programs in the approved DSM Plan. Florida Power & Light Company 93