SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 63

increases over time, energy savings from changes to energy efficiency codes and standards, binary variables, and autoregressive terms. The residential energy sales forecasts were also adjusted to reflect the anticipated impacts of continued adoption of electric vehicles and private solar. 2026 residential energy sales for the integrated system are projected to be 54.9% of sales to ultimate consumers and are projected to grow at an average annual rate of 1.7% over the forecast period. 2. Commercial Sales The commercial energy sales forecasts were also developed using econometric models where the energy sales were expressed as monthly use per customer per billing day. The forecasted energy use per customer per billing day was multiplied by the projected number of billing days and customers to arrive at the commercial billed energy sales forecasts. The billed energy sales were then adjusted for unbilled energy to arrive at the calendar month delivered energy sales forecasts. The commercial energy use per customer forecasts were developed using separate models based on rate code. The two FPL models were for small/medium customers (commercial customers on energy only and demand rates less than 500 kilowatt) and large customers (commercial customers on demand rates of 500 kW or higher). The FPL NWFL models were for small customers (commercial customers on General Service or GS rates) and large customers (commercial customers on demand rates of 25 kW or higher). The commercial energy sales models utilize variables for cooling degree hours, heating degree hours, housing starts, employment, the moving average of real electricity price increases over time, energy savings from changes to energy efficiency codes and standards, binary variables, and autoregressive terms. The commercial lighting sales forecast was developed using inputs from FPL’s lighting team. These forecasts are then added together to arrive at the total commercial sales forecast. The total commercial energy sales forecast was also adjusted to reflect the impact of private solar. 2026 commercial energy sales for the integrated system are projected to be 41.1% of sales to ultimate consumers and are projected to grow at an average annual rate of 0.3% over the forecast period. Florida Power & Light Company 49