SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 104

non-generating resources for system reliability remains an important resource planning issue and is one that will continue to be examined in ongoing resource planning work. 5. The significant impact of federal and state energy efficiency codes and standards: As discussed in Chapter II, the load forecasts for FPL include projected impacts from federal and state energy efficiency codes and standards. These energy efficiency codes and standards are projected to have significant incremental impacts by reducing forecasted summer and winter peak loads, and by reducing annual NEL, in FPL’s system. From the end of 2025 through the year 2035, these energy efficiency codes and standards are projected to reduce summer peak load by approximately 1,940 MW, reduce Winter peak load by approximately 420 MW, and reduce annual energy usage by approximately 2,600 GWh. In addition to lowering the load forecast from what it otherwise would have been and thus serving to lower projected load and resource needs, this projected energy efficiency from the codes and standards also affects resource planning in another way: it lowers the potential market for utility DSM programs to cost-effectively deliver energy efficiency. 6. The fuel cost and efficiency of FPL’s fossil-fueled generation fleet and the avoidance of fuel costs through increased solar generation: There are two main factors that drive utility system costs for FPL’s fossil-fueled generation fleet: (i) forecasted natural gas costs, and (ii) the efficiency with which generating units convert fuel into electricity. While natural gas costs always remain subject to supply, demand and geopolitical impacts, forecasted natural gas costs have recently been one of the lowest cost options for fuel, leading to low overall system fuel costs for FPL’s customers when compared to other fuels like oil or coal. In addition to these natural gas costs, FPL customers also experience lower rates resulting from two other characteristics of FPL’s system: 1) the amount of solar generation on FPL’s system and 2) the efficiency of FPL’s fossil-fueled generating units. In 2025, FPL customers saved approximately $404 million in system fuel costs from FPL having solar generation on its system. Since 2017 (when FPL began scaling investment in cost- effective large-scale solar facilities), FPL has avoided approximately $1.5 billion of fuel costs because of its solar generation. In regard to the fuel efficiency of FPL’s fossil-fueled generating units, the amount of natural gas (BTU) needed to produce a kWh of electricity has declined from approximately 9,635 in 2001 Florida Power & Light Company 90