SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 206

MW battery storage facility was added in late 2021 at the existing Manatee plant site. Additional battery storage capacity was added in late 2021 with 30 MW of battery storage added at both the existing Sunshine Gateway Solar Energy Center and at the Echo River Solar Energy Center. In order to address local supply concerns in the NWFL region, FPL added 522 MW of battery storage in this area at the end of 2025. FPL’s 2025 rate case settlement order (Order PSC-2026-0022-S-EI) allows for the construction of 3,431 MW from 2026 through 2029. A total of approximately 7,454 (nameplate) MW of battery storage is included in the resource plan for 2026 through 2035. These batteries help to minimize solar curtailment during shoulder load daytime hours and meet load demand in the evenings and in winter mornings. Batteries are also able to ramp up their output much faster than conventional generation, making them effective at meeting load demand as solar generation reduces during evening hours. In addition, FPL is analyzing the potential of battery storage technology to benefit FPL’s customers in other ways. These analyses have been, and are currently, being carried out through implementation of two pilot projects designed to evaluate different potential applications for batteries on FPL’s system. The objectives of the two pilot projects are to identify the most promising applications for batteries on FPL’s system and to gain experience with battery installation and operation. This information will position FPL to expeditiously take advantage of battery storage for the benefit of FPL’s customers as the economics of the technology continue to improve. For the purpose of discussing these two pilot projects, they will be referred to as the “small scale” and “large scale” storage pilot projects. 1. Small Scale Storage Pilot Projects: In 2016 and early 2017, FPL installed approximately 4 MW of battery storage systems, spread across six sites, with the general objective of demonstrating the operational capabilities of batteries and learning how to integrate them into FPL’s system. These small storage projects were designed with a distinct set of high-priority battery storage grid applications in mind. These applications include peak shaving, frequency response, and backup power. In addition, these initial projects were designed to provide FPL with an opportunity to determine how to best integrate storage into FPL’s operational software systems and how best to dispatch and/or control the storage systems. To this end, FPL installed multiple projects that have been in service for more than eight years and have yielded valuable information regarding the applications listed above. These projects Florida Power & Light Company 192