SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 65

5. Other Public Authority Sales This class consists of a sports field rate schedule (which is closed to new customers) and one governmental account. The forecast for this class was developed using an exponential smoothing model. 6. Total Sales to Ultimate Customer The sales forecasts for each of the revenue classes were each summed to produce the Total Sales to Ultimate Customer forecasts. 7. Sales for Resale Sales for Resale (wholesale) customers are comprised of sales to municipalities and/or electric co-operatives. These customers differ from jurisdictional customers in that they are not the ultimate users of electricity. Instead, they resell this electricity to their own customers. The Sales for Resale forecast includes wholesale loads served under full and partial- requirements contracts that provide other utilities all, or a portion of, their load requirements at a level of service equivalent to FPL’s own native load customers. There are fourteen customers in this class: Florida Keys Electric Cooperative, Lee County Electric Cooperative, New Smyrna Beach, Wauchula, Homestead, Quincy, Moore Haven, Florida Public Utilities Company, Blountstown, Alachua, Jacksonville Electric Authority, Bartow, PowerSouth, and Dalton. Florida Keys Electric Cooperative: Service began May 2011 under a long-term, full- requirements contract that continues through 2032, with an option to extend through 2052. Lee County Electric Cooperative: Service began in 2010. The current full-requirements contract began in 2014 and continues through 2033, with an option to extend through 2053. New Smyrna Beach: Sales began in February 2014 and continue through December 2033, with a three-year extension option. Wauchula: Sales began in January 2024 and continue through December 2030. Homestead: Sales began in August 2015 and continue through December 2028. Quincy: Sales began in January 2016 and continue through December 2027. Florida Power & Light Company 51