SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 29

Factor # 8: Projected increases in electric vehicle (EV) adoption. FPL’s current load forecast continues to project increasing levels of EV adoption throughout the ten-year period. The overall forecast of EV penetration is lower when compared to the 2025 TYSP but still impacts FPL’s overall projections of demand and energy. These projected impacts of EVs on annual energy usage and peak loads are discussed later in this document in Chapter II. Factor # 9: Enhancing system reliability to prepare for extreme weather events. Over the past several years, extreme weather events have caused significant outages and disruptions to electric grids across the country. These events include widespread hot weather in California in the summer of 2020, historic cold weather in Texas in February 2021, and extreme cold conditions throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Southeast around Christmas of 2022. FPL’s NWFL area has continually set records in winter peak demand, including a record peak early in 2025 when widespread snowfall occurred throughout northern Florida. FPL’s overall system has also hit all-time peaks for summer in 2025 and winter in early 2026. In addition to these peak events, FPL’s service area regularly experiences periods of hotter than average weather throughout the year and hurricanes that can potentially affect the output of its generation fleet. While FPL does not plan its system around extreme events, it is prudent to consider and prepare for the possibility of extreme weather events and the ability to reliably serve customers under those circumstances. To that end, FPL has reviewed the lessons learned from the outages and service disruptions experienced in other jurisdictions and enhanced its own system so that it is adequately prepared. This includes winterizing FPL’s nuclear and fossil-fueled generation units, enhancing cooperation and preparation between FPL and suppliers of natural gas and fuel oil, and keeping generation units as “extreme winter only” units that will provide the lowest cost backup capacity in the event of extreme winter weather in FPL’s service area. The additional dispatchable resources that FPL is adding throughout the ten-year period will also support reliability and grid stability throughout the year, including during extreme weather events. FPL will continue to work with regulatory authorities, such as the FERC, the FPSC, and the North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC), to follow their guidance regarding proper planning procedures for extreme weather events. Factor # 10: Enhancing the system for resource adequacy and system reliability throughout the entire year. FPL’s planning processes center around maintaining the reliability of its bulk electric system. For the past two decades, the metric that drove most of FPL’s resource needs was its minimum 20% standard reserve margin, calculated at the time of summer and winter peak load. However, FPL’s evolving system requires more in-depth reliability metrics to fully analyze resource adequacy across every hour of the year and through various potential scenarios, including variations in load, generating outages, and solar Florida Power & Light Company 15