SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 216

Because natural uranium does not contain a sufficient amount of U-235, the third step increases the percentage amount of U-235 from 0.711% to a level specified when designing the reactor core (typically in a range from approximately 2.0% to as high as 4.95%). The output of this enrichment process is enriched uranium in the form of UF . 6 (4) Fabrication: During the last step, fuel fabrication, the enriched UF is changed to a UO 6 2 powder, pressed into pellets, and fed into tubes, which are sealed and bundled together into fuel assemblies. These fuel assemblies are then delivered to the plant site for insertion into a reactor. Like other utilities, FPL has purchased raw uranium and the other components of the nuclear fuel cycle separately from numerous suppliers from different countries. b) Price Forecasts for Each Step (1) Mining: The impact of the earthquake and tsunami that struck the Fukushima nuclear complex in Japan in March 2011 is still being felt in the uranium market because the majority of the Japanese nuclear reactors are still not operating. As a result, current demand has remained declined and several of the production facilities have either closed or announced delays. Factors of importance are: • Some of the uranium inventory from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) is finding its way into the market periodically to fund cleanup of certain DOE facilities. • Although only two new nuclear units are starting production in the U.S. in the short-term, other countries have announced an increase in construction of new units which may cause uranium prices to trend up in the near future. Over a ten-year horizon, FPL expects the market to be more consistent with market fundamentals. The supply picture remains stable, with laws enacted in 2020 to resolve the import of Russian-enriched uranium, by allowing continued imports of Russian-enriched uranium to meet about 15-24% of needs from 2026-2040 for currently operating and new units. New and current uranium production facilities are decreasing capacity due to continued low prices and demands. Actual demand tends to grow over time because of the long lead time to build nuclear units. However, FPL cannot discount the possibility of future Florida Power & Light Company 202