SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 68

incremental impacts from these energy efficiency codes and standards are a reduction on the Summer peak of approximately 1,940 MW and a reduction on the Winter peak of approximately 420 MW. As noted previously, the forecasts were also adjusted for the estimated load impacts from private solar and plug-in EVs. The combined impact of private solar and plug-in EVs is projected to increase peak load on the FPL’s system by approximately 1,050 MW in the Summer and 760 MW 7 in the Winter by the end of 2035. The forecasting methodologies for Summer, Winter, and monthly system peaks are discussed below. 1. System Summer Peak The Summer peak demand forecast for the integrated system is the highest hourly demand during the Summer months from the integrated system hourly forecast which was developed by summing the forecasted system hourly loads for FPL and FPL NWFL. This approach ensures the Summer peak demand forecast for the integrated system reflects the growth in Summer peak load while reflecting the previously mentioned peak demand reduction associated with load diversity. The Summer peak demand for the integrated system is projected to occur in August. The Summer peak forecasts were developed using econometric models where the peak loads were expressed as Summer peak load per customer and the resulting projected peak loads per customer were multiplied by the forecast number of customers to arrive at the Summer peak load forecasts. The models included variables for weather, employment or income, and peak load reductions from change in energy efficiency codes and standards. The peak loads were then adjusted to account for the expected changes in loads resulting from private solar, plug-in EVs, wholesale requirements, and the expected addition of large loads to derive FPL’s system Summer peak. 2. System Winter Peak The Winter peak forecast presented in this Site Plan is the highest hourly demand during the Winter months from the integrated system hourly forecast, which was developed by summing the forecasted system hourly loads for FPL and FPL NWFL. This approach ensures the Winter peak demand forecast for the integrated system reflects the growth in Winter peak while Florida Power & Light Company 54