SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 215

4. Securing Additional Natural Gas Reliance upon natural gas to produce electricity for FPL’s customers is projected to continue for a number of years due to FPL’s growing load. FPL has historically purchased the gas transportation capacity required for new natural gas supply from two existing natural gas pipeline companies: FGT and Gulfstream. In mid-2017, a third new pipeline system, consisting of the Sabal Trail and Florida Southeast Connection pipelines, went into operation. This new pipeline system is now providing fuel for FPL’s Riviera, Okeechobee, and Martin plants. The new pipeline system will also allow needed support for gas-fueled FPL generation facilities in several counties. 5. Nuclear Fuel Cost Forecast This section discusses the various steps needed to fabricate nuclear fuel for delivery to nuclear power plants, the method used to forecast the price for each step, and other comments regarding FPL’s nuclear fuel cost forecast. a) Steps Required for Nuclear Fuel to be delivered to FPL’s Plants Four separate steps are required before nuclear fuel can be used in a commercial nuclear power reactor. These steps are summarized below. (1) Mining: Uranium is produced in many countries such as Canada, Australia, Kazakhstan, and the United States. During the first step, uranium is mined from the ground using techniques such as open pit mining, underground mining, in-situ leaching operations, or production as a by-product from other mining operations, such as gold, copper, or phosphate rocks. The product from this first step is the raw uranium delivered as an oxide, U O (sometimes referred to as yellowcake). 3 8 (2) Conversion: During the second step, the U O is chemically converted into UF which, 3 8 6 when heated, changes into a gaseous state. This second step further removes any chemical impurities and serves as preparation for the third step, which requires uranium to be in a gaseous state. (3) Enrichment: Natural uranium contains 0.711% of uranium at an atomic mass of 235 (U-235) and 99.289% of uranium at an atomic mass of 238 (U-238). FPL’s nuclear reactors use uranium with a higher percentage of up to almost five percent (5%) of U-235 atoms. Florida Power & Light Company 201