SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 217

periodic sharp increases in prices but believes such occurrences will likely be temporary in nature. (2) Conversion: The conversion market is also in a state of flux due to the Fukushima events. Planned production is currently forecasted to be insufficient to meet a higher demand scenario, but it is projected to be sufficient to meet most reference case scenarios. As with additional raw uranium production, supply will expand beyond the current level if more firm commitments are made. FPL expects long-term price stability for conversion services to support world demand. (3) Enrichment: Since the Fukushima events in March 2011, the near-term price of enrichment services has declined. However, plans for construction of several new facilities that were expected to come on-line after 2011 have been delayed and/or cancelled. Also, some of the existing high operating cost diffusion plants have shut down. As with supply for the other steps of the nuclear fuel cycle, expansion of future capacity is feasible within the lead time for constructing new nuclear units and any other projected increase in demand. Meanwhile, world supply and demand will continue to be balanced such that FPL expects an adequate supply of enrichment services. The current supply/demand profile will likely result in the price of enrichment services remaining stable for the next few years, then starting to increase. (4) Fabrication: Because the nuclear fuel fabrication process is highly regulated by the NRC, not all production facilities can qualify as suppliers to nuclear reactors in the U.S. Although world supply and demand are expected to show significant excess capacity for the foreseeable future, the gap is not as wide for U.S. supply and demand. The supply for the U.S. market is expected to be sufficient to meet U.S. demand for the foreseeable future. c) Other Comments Regarding FPL’s Nuclear Fuel Cost Forecast FPL’s nuclear fuel price forecasts are the result of FPL’s analysis based on inputs from various nuclear fuel market expert reports and studies. There is adequate projected supply, including planned and prospective mine expansions, to meet FPL demands, including operation of the two Turkey Point nuclear units, even through the 2052 and 2053 dates that are a part of FPL’s SLR requests for these units. Florida Power & Light Company 203