SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 67

adoption of new plug-in EVs during the forecast period. The impact of private solar and EV adoption on the NEL forecast for the integrated system is projected to be a net increase of approximately 5,400 GWh by 2035, compared to a net increase of approximately 2,800 GWh shown in the prior Site Plan. The net increase relative to the prior Site Plan primarily reflects updated projections for private solar and EV adoption that account for expected changes in federal tax credit availability under the OBBBA enacted and signed into law in 2025. II.E. System Peak Forecasts The rate of absolute growth in peak load is a function of the size of the customer base, projected economic conditions, and energy efficiency codes and standards. The peak load forecast models capture these behavioral relationships. The peak load forecasts also reflect changes in load from private solar, plug-in EVs, economic development riders, and wholesale requirements contracts. The monthly peak loads for the integrated system from 2026 and beyond are the highest hourly demand from the forecasted system hourly load forecast, which was developed by first adjusting FPL NWFL’s load to reflect Eastern time zone and then summing the forecasted system hourly loads for the systems. The integrated system peak load forecast reflects the growth in peak load and includes the expected reduction to the peak demand for the integrated system that results from load diversity. When viewed as separate systems or regions, the loads peak at different times which results in load diversity, primarily due to the FPL NWFL system being located in a different time zone than the rest of the FPL system. The benefit of load diversity is a reduction to the integrated system peak demand. By 2035, the peak demand reductions from load diversity are projected to be 112 MW in the Summer and 568 MW in the Winter. The savings from energy efficiency codes and standards incorporated into the peak forecast include the impacts from the 2005 National Energy Policy Act, the 2007 Energy Independence and Security Act, and the use of CFLs and LEDs. The impact from these energy efficiency standards began in 2005, and their cumulative reduction, from that year, on the integrated Summer peak is projected to reach approximately 8,300 MW by 2035. For the integrated system, the cumulative 2035 impacts from these energy efficiency codes and standards are projected to effectively reduce the Summer peak by approximately 23% and the Winter peak by approximately 6% for that year. From the end of 2025 through 2035, the projected Florida Power & Light Company 53