SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 205

3. FPL SolarTogether™ Program: In March of 2019, FPL filed for FPSC approval of a community solar program under the market name FPL SolarTogether™. This voluntary program offers FPL customers the option to purchase solar output/attributes from cost-effective, large-scale solar energy centers. The proposed program did not require customers who participate to be bound to a long-term contract or subject to upfront enrollment costs or termination penalties. Under this program, participants’ monthly electric bills would show both a subscription charge and a subscription credit line item associated with the subscribers’ share of the actual solar energy generated. The FPL SolarTogether™ program was designed to leverage the economies of scale of universal solar to deliver long-term savings to both program participants and non-participants. In March 2020, the FPSC approved the FPL SolarTogether™ program (Order PSC-2020- 0084-S-EI). From 2020 through 2024, FPL has installed 3,278 MW of solar under the SolarTogether™ program. Approximately 1,005 MW has been allocated to residential customers, 2,190 MW has been allocated to commercial, industrial, and governmental customers, and 83 MW have been allocated to the low-income portion of SolarTogether™, marketed as FPL SunAssistTM. 4. Solar Power Facilities Pilot Program: As part of FPL’s 2025 Settlement Agreement, FPL received approval to offer a permanent voluntary program to commercial and industrial customers that may elect to have FPL install and maintain a solar facility on their site for a monthly tariff charge (the “Solar Power Facilities Pilot Program”). The output of the solar facility is used solely by the participating customer. The fixed-term tariff recovers project capital costs and ongoing operating expenses through a monthly fixed charge paid by program participants, such that the general body of customers is not impacted. Over the last year, the program has deployed multiple assets throughout FPL’s service territory and maintains a backlog of projects in various stages of the development lifecycle. Battery Storage Efforts: Battery storage technology has continued to advance and it continues to be cost-effective over the long-term, aided, in part, by continued tax credits. As a result, battery storage is an economically competitive firm capacity option for FPL’s system. As previously discussed, a 409 Florida Power & Light Company 191