SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 70

Forecasted values for FPL’s system hourly load were developed using a system load forecasting program named MetrixLT. This model uses years of historical FPL hourly system load data to develop load shapes. The model generates a projection of hourly load values based on these load shapes and the forecast of FPL’s monthly peaks and energy. Forecasted values for FPL NWFL’s system hourly load were also developed using MetrixLT, which uses historical FPL NWFL hourly system load data to develop load shapes. The model generates a projection of hourly load values based on these load shapes and the forecast of FPL NWFL’s monthly peaks and energy. II.G. Uncertainty Uncertainty is inherent in the load forecasting process. This uncertainty can result from a number of factors, including unexpected changes in consumer behavior, structural shifts in the economy, economic/business cycles, and fluctuating weather conditions. Large weather fluctuations can and frequently do result in significant deviations between actual and forecasted peak demands. In particular, Winter peak demands have experienced significantly greater volatility than those observed for the Summer peak or NEL. The inherent uncertainty in load forecasting is addressed in different ways regarding the overall resource planning and operational planning work. With respect to resource planning work, the utilization of a 20% total reserve margin (TRM) criterion, a LOLP criterion of 0.1 days per year, and a 10% GRM criterion are designed to maintain reliable electric service for customers in light of forecasting and other uncertainties. In addition, FPL’s Winter peak demands have experienced significantly greater volatility than the Summer peak or NEL, and this greater volatility results in additional risks to FPL’s ability to serve winter load. FPL continues to analyze system impacts of Winter peak demands due to this greater volatility. In addition, FPL’s shift to stochastic LOLP modeling provides a look at a variety of different weather scenarios that affect FPL’s demand throughout the year. II.H. DSM In this Site Plan, FPL accounts for the effects of its DSM energy efficiency programs through August 2025, which are embedded in the actual usage data for forecasting purposes. In addition, FPL accounts for the following projected DSM MW and MWh impacts as “line item reductions” to the Florida Power & Light Company 56