SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 27

Factor # 4: The need to maintain an appropriate balance of DSM and supply resources from the perspectives of both system reliability and operations. FPL addresses this factor through the use of a 10% generation-only reserve margin (GRM) reliability criterion to complement its other two reliability criteria: a 20%3 total reserve margin criterion for Summer and Winter, and an annual 0.1 day/year LOLP criterion. Together, these three criteria allow FPL to address this specific concern regarding system reliability and operations in a comprehensive manner. Factor # 5: The significant impact of federal and state energy efficiency codes and standards. The incremental impacts of these energy efficiency codes and standards are projected to have significant impacts by reducing forecasted summer and winter peak loads, and by reducing annual net energy for load (NEL), in FPL’s system. From the end of 2025 through 2035, these energy efficiency codes and standards are projected to reduce summer peak load by approximately 1,900 MW, reduce winter peak load by approximately 420 MW, and reduce annual energy usage by approximately 2,800 GWh. In addition, energy efficiency codes and standards significantly reduce the potential for cost-effective utility DSM programs. The projected impacts of these energy efficiency codes and standards are discussed in more detail in Chapter II. Factor # 6: The fuel cost and efficiency of FPL’s fossil-fueled generation fleet and the avoidance of fuel costs through increased solar generation. There are two main factors that drive utility system costs for FPL’s fossil-fueled generation fleet: (i) forecasted natural gas costs, and (ii) the efficiency with which generating units convert fuel into electricity. While natural gas costs always remain subject to supply, demand and geopolitical impacts, forecasted natural gas costs have recently been one of the lowest cost options for fuel, leading to low overall system fuel costs for FPL’s customers when compared with fuels such as oil and coal. In addition to these low natural gas costs, FPL customers also experience lower rates resulting from two other characteristics of FPL’s system: 1) the amount of solar generation on FPL’s system and 2) the efficiency of FPL’s fossil-fueled generating units. In 2025, FPL customers saved approximately $404 million in system fuel costs from FPL having solar generation on its system. Since 2017 (when FPL began scaling investment in cost-effective large-scale solar facilities), FPL has avoided approximately $1.5 billion of fuel costs because of its solar generation. 3 The 20% reserve margin requirement is a minimum requirement - FPL’s projected reserve margin may be higher than 20% during some years as additional resources are added for resource needs and meeting other reliability criteria. Florida Power & Light Company 13