SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 92

Firm Capacity PPAs: The second set of assumptions involves other firm capacity PPAs. These assumptions are generally consistent with those presented in FPL’s 2025 Site Plan. The remaining projected firm capacity purchases are from independent power producers. Details for these other purchases, including the annual total capacity values, are presented in Chapter I in Tables I.A.3.2 and I.A.3.3. These purchased firm capacity amounts were incorporated in the resource planning work that led to the resource plan presented in this document. DSM Implementation: The third set of assumptions involves a projection of the amount of incremental DSM that FPL anticipates implementing annually over the ten-year reporting period of 2026-2035 for this Site Plan. In April of 2024, FPL filed its proposed 2024 DSM Goals. These Goals were approved by the FPSC, and FPL filed a plan to meet these goals in March 2025, which was approved with modifications by the FPSC. This approved plan accounts for the projected annual amounts of Summer MW reduction, Winter MW reduction, and energy (MWh) reduction for the years 2026- 2035. The Three Reliability Criteria Used to Determine FPL’s Projected Resource Needs: FPL’s resource planning process applies these key assumptions, plus the other updated information described above, in the first fundamental step: determining the magnitude and timing of future resource needs. This determination is accomplished through system reliability analyses. Until 2014, FPL’s reliability analyses were based on dual planning criteria, including a minimum peak-period total reserve margin (TRM) of 20% (FPL applies this criterion to both Summer and Winter peaks) and a maximum LOLP of 0.1 day per year. Both criteria are commonly used throughout the utility industry. Beginning in 2014, FPL began utilizing a third reliability criterion: a 10% GRM. These reliability criteria utilize two basic types of methodologies: deterministic and probabilistic. The calculation of excess firm capacity at the annual system peaks (reserve margin) is a common method, and this relatively simple deterministic calculation can be performed on a spreadsheet. It provides an indication of the adequacy of a generating system’s capacity resources compared to its load during peak periods. However, deterministic methods do not take into account probabilistic- related elements, such as the impact of individual unit failures. For example, two 50 MW units that can be counted on to run 90% of the time are more valuable in regard to utility system reliability than is one 100 MW unit that also can be counted on to run 90% of the time. Probabilistic methods Florida Power & Light Company 78