SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 105

to approximately 7,110 in 2025. This improvement of approximately 26% in fuel efficiency is truly significant, especially when considering the 20,000 MW-plus magnitude of gas-fueled generation on FPL’s system. Overall, FPL’s improvement in fuel efficiency has resulted in an estimated cumulative fuel cost savings for FPL’s customers of approximately $16.1 billion from 2001 through 2025, including fuel cost savings of $860 million in 2025 alone. 7. Projected changes in CO regulation and associated compliance costs: 2 Since 2007, FPL has evaluated potential carbon dioxide (CO ) regulation and/or legislation and 2 has utilized projected compliance costs for CO emissions prepared by an independent 2 consultant, ICF, in its resource planning work. FPL continues to utilize ICF’s forecast of projected CO compliance costs in its resource planning process. The projected compliance 2 costs in the current plan are the same as those used in the 2025 Ten Year Site Plan. 8. Projected increases in electric vehicle (EV) adoption: FPL’s current load forecast continues to project increasing levels of EV adoption throughout the ten-year period. The projected impacts of EVs on annual energy usage and peak loads are discussed in this document in Chapter II. Both the higher MWh and peak hour MW impacts of EVs will have resource planning implications. 9. Enhancing system reliability during extreme weather events: Over the past several years, extreme weather events have caused significant outages and disruptions to electric grids across the country. These events include widespread hot weather in California in the summer of 2020, historic cold weather in Texas in February 2021, and extreme cold conditions throughout the Mid-Atlantic and Southeast around Christmas of 2022. FPL’s NWFL area has continually set records in winter peak demand, including a record peak early in 2025 when widespread snowfall occurred throughout northern Florida. FPL’s overall system has also hit all-time peaks for summer in 2025 and winter in early 2026. In addition to these peak events, FPL’s service area regularly experiences periods of hotter than average weather throughout the year and hurricanes that can potentially affect the output of its generation fleet. While FPL does not plan its system around extreme events, it is prudent to consider and prepare for the possibility of extreme weather events and the ability to reliably serve customers under those circumstances. To that end, FPL has reviewed the lessons learned from the outages and service disruptions experienced in other jurisdictions and enhanced its own system so that it is adequately prepared. This includes winterizing FPL’s nuclear and fossil-fueled generation units, enhancing cooperation and preparation between FPL and suppliers of natural gas and fuel oil, and keeping generation units as “extreme winter Florida Power & Light Company 91