SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 96

evaluation of existing DSM options are often conducted in this second fundamental IRP step when FPL is determining its DSM goals. FPL’s resource planning group typically utilizes an optimization model to perform the preliminary economic screening of generation resource options. For the preliminary economic screening analyses of DSM resource options, FPL typically uses its DSM Conservation, Planning, and Forecasting (CPF) model, which is an FPL spreadsheet model utilizing the FPSC’s approved methodology for performing preliminary economic screening of individual DSM measures and programs. Then, as the focus of DSM analyses progresses from analysis of individual DSM measures to the development of DSM portfolios, FPL typically uses two additional models. One is a proprietary non-linear programming (NLP) model that is used to analyze the potential for lowering system peak loads through additional load management/demand response capability. The other model that is utilized is a proprietary linear programming (LP) model with which DSM portfolios are developed. The next step is typically to “package” the individual new resource options, both Supply options and DSM portfolios, emerging from these preliminary economic screening analyses into different resource plans that are designed to meet the system reliability criteria. In other words, resource plans are created by combining individual resource options so that the timing and magnitude of projected new resource needs are met. The creation of these competing resource plans is typically carried out using spreadsheet and/or dynamic programming techniques. At the conclusion of the second fundamental resource planning step, different combinations of new resource options (i.e., resource plans) of a magnitude and timing necessary to meet the projected resource needs are identified. Step 3: Evaluate the Competing Options and Resource Plans Based on System Economics and Non-Economic Factors: At the completion of fundamental Steps 1 and 2, the most viable new resource options have been identified, and these resource options have been combined into resource plans that each meet the magnitude and timing of projected resource needs. The stage is set for evaluating these resource options and resource plans in system economic analyses that aim to account for all the impacts to the utility system from the competing resource options/resource plans. FPL’s resource planning group typically utilizes the AURORA optimization model to develop and perform the system Florida Power & Light Company 82