SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 208

In the 4th Quarter of 2019, a 10 MW battery in Wynwood, a dense urban area close to downtown Miami, went into service. The project is designed to examine the use of batteries to support the distribution system with a focus on addressing grid, system, and customer challenges. Key learnings relate to the challenges of installing a battery in a dense urban area, including the decision to install in a building to allow for increased energy density, and integration into the distribution control system to allow for seamless integration into the Automated Feeder Switching system. Two additional projects placed in-service in 2020 are designed to enhance reliability for FPL customers and the grid. One is an 11.5 MW battery that will augment the Dania Beach Clean Energy Center Unit 7. This project evaluates the use of battery storage to black start large generating units. The other is a 3 MW battery alongside an existing solar system to create a microgrid. The microgrid will be used for local resiliency and to provide additional grid services, including mitigation of disruptions potentially caused by solar in the distribution system. The projects have thus far yielded valuable learnings about interconnection approach and properly sizing the battery to account for the inrush current needed to energize the load for these applications. The last three projects explore battery storage opportunities associated with EVs and EV infrastructure. The first explores the potential for utilizing EVs as grid resources on FPL’s system for the first time ever; the 1.25 MW of Electric-Vehicle-to-Grid (EV2G) batteries using electric school buses will be able to discharge electricity to the grid when needed. The first two buses were delivered in the 3rd Quarter of 2020 and 1st Quarter of 2021; the remaining three buses, delayed due to supply chain constraints, were delivered in 2nd Quarter of 2024. The second EV plus storage pilot adds 0.35 MW of battery storage to two FPL EVolution® pilot sites in Columbia County and Nassau County (0.7 MW total) to provide grid benefits in the form of peak shaving and a reduction in distribution upgrades. The third and final pilot project, the “FPL EVolution® Hub”, has two parts: (i) 7.25 MW of storage paired with 5 MW solar to create a renewable microgrid, and (ii) two trailers each fitted with 0.65 MW (total 1.3 MW) of storage and 6 EV (12 total) fast chargers. The microgrid will be used to charge the trailers that will be deployed throughout FPL service area during grid events to increase resiliency for EV charging. The microgrid will also be used to provide electricity to a nearby administrative building, warehouse, and several biodiesel tanks when not being used to charge the battery trailers. The first and third pilot projects have completed construction and are operational as of 2022. The EV + Storage project in Columbia and Nassau counties was placed into service in the 1st Quarter in 2024. Florida Power & Light Company 194