SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 101

Nuclear Energy: In 2008, the FPSC approved the need to increase capacity at FPL’s four existing nuclear units and authorized the company to recover project-related expenditures that were approved as a result of annual nuclear cost recovery filings. FPL successfully completed this nuclear capacity uprate project. Approximately 520 MW of additional nuclear capacity was delivered by the project, which represents an increase of approximately 30% more incremental capacity than was originally forecasted when the project began. Additional uprates followed which resulted in approximately 40 MW more capacity. FPL’s customers are currently benefitting from lower fuel costs and reduced system emissions provided by this additional nuclear capacity. In June 2009, FPL began the process of securing COLs from the federal NRC for two future nuclear units, Turkey Point Units 6 & 7, that would be sited at FPL’s Turkey Point site (the location of two existing nuclear generating units). In April 2018, FPL received NRC approval for these two COLs, and these licenses currently remain valid. FPL has paused the decision whether to seek FPSC approval to move forward with construction of Turkey Point Units 6 & 7. FPL intends to incorporate into any decision regarding Turkey Point Units 6 & 7 the experience gained from the construction and operation of Georgia Power’s Vogtle nuclear units. As a result, the earliest possible in-service dates for Turkey Point 6 & 7 are beyond the ten-year period addressed in this 2026 Site Plan. This Site Plan continues to present the Turkey Point location as a Preferred Site for nuclear generation as indicated in Chapter IV. On January 30, 2018, FPL applied to the NRC for SLR for FPL’s existing Turkey Point Units 3 & 4. The previous license terms for these two existing nuclear units extended into the years 2032 and 2033, respectively. The SLR requested approval to extend the operating licenses by 20 years to 2052 and 2053, respectively. The NRC granted approval for the SLR in December 2019. On February 24, 2022, the NRC on its own accord reversed its adjudicatory decision interpreting environmental rules related to SLRs. In particular, the NRC concluded that its environmental review of all pending SLR requests under the National Environmental Policy Act was insufficient due to inadequacies of the NRC’s Generic Environmental Impact Statement (GEIS) for license renewal, which is applicable to all plants. With this action, the NRC directed its staff to amend the Turkey Point Units 3 & 4 operating licenses by removing the 20-year term of licensed operation added by the SLR, thereby restoring the previous operating license expiration dates of 2032 and 2033 for Turkey Point Units 3 & 4, respectively. Florida Power & Light Company 87