SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 102

Following this decision, SLR applicants had the option to satisfy the environmental review requirements either by requesting the NRC Staff to proceed with an entirely site-specific EIS or by waiting for the NRC to issue a revised GEIS that would address all SLR applications. In response to the NRC’s action, FPL decided to pursue an entirely site-specific EIS for Turkey Point Units 3 & 4. The NRC completed its site-specific review of the application and reissued the 20-year SLR term for Turkey Point Units 3 and 4 on September 17, 2024. Certain intervenors sought hearing requests in the Turkey Point Units 3 & 4 subsequent license renewal proceeding. Following adjudicatory proceedings, no admitted contentions remained and the proceeding was terminated. Any further Commission-level review is subject to the NRC’s established appellate processes. For purposes of this Site Plan filing, FPL’s resource planning analyses have assumed the continued operation of Turkey Point Units 3 & 4 through the currently pending new license termination dates of 2052 and 2053 for Units 3 & 4, respectively. In the 3rd Quarter of 2021, FPL applied to the NRC for a SLR for its existing St. Lucie nuclear Units 1 & 2. If approved by the NRC, the SLRs for St. Lucie Units 1 & 2 will extend the licenses for those facilities for an additional 20 years until 2056 and 2063, respectively. The NRC schedule for the review of the St. Lucie SLR application has been delayed as the NRC worked to revise its generic EIS for license renewal in response to the Turkey Point SLR decision. FPL chose to wait for the completion of the NRC’s revised GEIS and have the NRC incorporate that generic analysis into its St. Lucie review. The revised GEIS was published in August 2024. The current expectation is that the St. Lucie review, which incorporates the GEIS, will be completed in 2026. The revised GEIS is currently subject to a challenge in the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, but the NRC’s review of the application remains ongoing. Similar to the assumption for the Turkey Point Units, FPL’s resource planning analyses have assumed the continued operation of St. Lucie Units 1 & 2 through the new license termination dates of 2056 and 2063 for Units 1 & 2, respectively. FPL is also continuing to monitor advanced nuclear power options such as SMRs. To prepare for the potential future commercial viability of SMRs, FPL plans to begin the initial stages of Early Site Permitting, available under NRC rules, in the 2026-2027 timeframe for a potential SMR at a site adjacent to an existing nuclear power plant. This strategic move is aimed at minimizing risks, allowing emerging technologies to mature, and enabling robust and well- developed regulatory frameworks prior to deployment, while remaining cognizant of the current high costs of nuclear and SMR development and taking a stepwise approach. FPL is closely Florida Power & Light Company 88