SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 103

monitoring current initiatives at both the U.S. Department of Energy and the NRC. By taking these steps early on, FPL aims to be well-positioned to benefit from future nuclear deployment. The projected in-service date of an SMR would be outside the ten-year period addressed in this Site Plan. Natural gas sourcing and delivery: FPL utilizes several natural gas pipelines to serve its existing natural gas units in Florida. These pipelines provide reliable, economic, and diverse natural gas supply to FPL and the State of Florida. In FPL NWFL, FPL’s plants are served by Gulf South Pipeline Company, LP (Gulf South) and the Florida Gas Transmission Company, LLC (FGT). In peninsular Florida, FPL delivers gas using the FGT and the Gulfstream Natural Gas System (Gulfstream) pipelines along with the Sabal Trail Transmission and the Florida Southeast Connection pipelines which were placed in service in 2017. Using natural gas more efficiently: FPL has sought ways to utilize natural gas more efficiently for years. Since 2008, FPL has modernized several of its existing plants sites from older, less efficient units into highly efficient CC units with much lower heat rates and higher capacities. These modernized units have improved the overall efficiency of FPL’s system, allowing for higher output while using lower amounts of natural gas. This improved efficiency is graphically shown in Figure ES-2 in the Executive Summary. Dual-fuel capability at existing units: Efforts are being made to maintain the ability to utilize ultra-low sulfur distillate (ULSD) oil at existing units that have that capability. Four new CTs were added at the Gulf Clean Energy Center in late 2021; these units have the capability to burn either natural gas or ULSD fuel oil. Having backup fuel capability ensures the ability of these units to provide generation even during potential disruptions of gas supply. In the future, FPL’s resource planning group will continue to identify and evaluate alternatives that may maintain or enhance system fuel diversity. 4. The need to maintain an appropriate balance of DSM and supply resources from the perspectives of both system reliability and operations: As mentioned earlier in Section III.A, FPL utilizes a 10% GRM to ensure that system reliability is not negatively affected by an overreliance on non-generation resources, particularly at times of extreme load. This GRM reliability criterion was developed as a result of extensive analyses - which have been described in detail in prior FPL Site Plans - of FPL’s system from both resource planning and system operations perspectives. The potential for overreliance upon Florida Power & Light Company 89