SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 214

In cases where multiple fuel cost forecasts are used, a Medium fuel cost forecast is developed first. FPL’s approach has been to then adjust the Medium fuel cost forecast upward (for the High fuel cost forecast) or downward (for the Low fuel cost forecast) by multiplying the annual cost values from the Medium fuel cost forecast by a factor of (1 + the historical volatility of the 12-month forward price, one year ahead) for the High fuel cost forecast, or by a factor of (1 - the historical volatility of the 12-month forward price, one year ahead) for the Low fuel cost forecast. 3. Natural Gas Storage Beginning April 1, 2026, FPL will have 5.0 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of firm natural gas storage capacity at the Bay Gas storage facility in Alabama through March 31, 2032. Also, effective April 1, 2026, FPL’s storage contract with SG Resources Mississippi, LLC (Southern Pines Storage) increased from 1 Bcf to 3 Bcf, and the contract is set to expire on March 31, 2030. In 2025, FPL added an incremental 2 Bcf of storage at Petal Storage located in Mississippi; the contract currently extends through March 31, 2030 and increases from 2 Bcf to 3 Bcf beginning April 1, 2030 though April 2036. Southern Pines and Petal storage provide diversity to FPL’s storage portfolio and access to numerous pipeline systems serving FPL. FPL has predominately utilized natural gas storage to help mitigate gas supply problems caused by severe weather and/or infrastructure problems. FPL’s ability to manage the daily “swings” in natural gas demand that can occur on its system due to weather and unit availability changes is challenging, particularly from oversupply situations. Natural gas storage is a valuable tool to help manage the daily balancing of supply and demand. From a balancing perspective, injection and withdrawal rights associated with gas storage have become an increasingly important part of the evaluation of overall gas storage requirements. As FPL’s system grows to meet customer needs, it must maintain adequate gas storage capacity to continue to help mitigate supply and/or infrastructure problems and to provide the ability to manage its supply and demand on a daily basis. The gas storage portfolio is continually evaluated and subscription for additional gas storage capacity is possible if needed to help increase reliability, provide the necessary flexibility to respond to demand changes, and diversify the overall portfolio. Florida Power & Light Company 200