SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 212

obtaining additional access to diversified sources of natural gas from the Mid-Continent, Marcellus, and Permian producing regions; preserving the ability to utilize fuel oil at existing units; increased utilization of nuclear energy; and the purchase of power from renewable energy facilities. Resiliency-focused efforts include enhancing natural gas supply resiliency, including liquefied natural gas (LNG) arrangements for peak needs. The evaluation of the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of these and other possible fuel diversity alternatives will be part of on-going resource planning efforts. As part of the effort to introduce further fuel diversity and resiliency into FPL’s generation system, a green hydrogen electrolysis pilot project has been developed and deployed at FPL’s Okeechobee CC unit. This pilot utilizes solar energy to perform electrolysis and generate hydrogen fuel. This hydrogen fuel is then burned in a portion of the CC unit to test the capability of FPL’s existing units to burn hydrogen instead of natural gas. This pilot allows FPL to assess how the CTs in a CC unit operate with a hydrogen and natural gas fuel mix, and it also provides insight into how a hydrogen fuel production and storage facility can be effectively used on site with combustion turbine units. To provide a source of hydrogen to burn for this pilot, FPL built an approximate 25 MW electrolyzer and a storage facility for the production and on-site storage of hydrogen at Okeechobee. The electrolyzer is interconnected with renewable generation at the Okeechobee site so that electrical energy from a solar facility can be used by the electrolyzer to separate water into hydrogen and oxygen gases. The oxygen is released into the air while the hydrogen is compressed and stored on-site where it can later be used as fuel in the CT units at the Okeechobee site. This pilot project went into service in late 2023. Current use of various fuels to supply energy to customers, plus projections of this “fuel mix” through 2035 based on the resource plan presented in this document, are presented in Schedules 5, 6.1, and 6.2 that appear later in this chapter. 2. Fossil Fuel Cost Forecasts FPL’s Fuel Cost Forecasts Fossil fuel price forecasts, and the resulting projected price differentials between fuels, are major drivers used to evaluate alternatives for meeting future resource needs. FPL’s forecasts are generally consistent with other published contemporary forecasts. A September 2025 fuel cost forecast was used in the analyses which developed the resource plans presented in this 2026 Site Plan. Florida Power & Light Company 198