SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/electric-vehicles.html

FPL | Electric Vehicles Skip to Main Content FPL EVolution ® offers charging solutions to keep you powered up and ready to drive. EV charging at home, work and on the go Working for you. Every single day.™ Drive electric - Charge with confidence Power your EV with America's smartest and most reliable energy grid. Enjoy range confidence when you charge at home or with our extensive public network. All-in-one EV home charging With no upfront costs, FPL EVolution Home installs and maintains a level 2 charger in your garage. Plus, you’ll receive ongoing maintenance and a lower rate for off-peak charging during nights, weekends and holidays. Get plugged in Commercial charging solutions We can help electrify your commercial fleet or share the process for installing your own EV chargers. Transform your fleet We’ll help you navigate the complexities of transforming your commercial fleet. From design and build to installation and charger maintenance, we've got you covered. Get electrified Your EV chargers, powered by FPL Installing your own EV chargers? We’ll help you understand the process, facilitate utility upgrades for installation and provide reliable electric service you can count on every single day. Let's connect Make-Ready Credit program Get up to $50,000 per port to help reduce electrical infrastructure costs for businesses, fleet operators and multifamily properties installing EV charging stations. See if you qualify Commercial charging solutions We can help electrify your commercial fleet or share the process for installing your own EV chargers. Transform your fleet We’ll help you navigate the complexities of transforming your commercial fleet. From design and build to installation and charger maintenance, we've got you covered. Get electrified Your EV chargers, powered by FPL Installing your own EV chargers? We’ll help you understand the process, facilitate utility upgrades for installation and provide reliable electric service you can count on every single day. Let's connect Working for you. Every single day. ™ Backed by 100 years of energy expertise, innovation and grid preparedness - FPL EVolution delivers electric vehicle solutions you can count on. We offer an easy experience at home, an extensive on-the-go network and turnkey fleet electrification services. Electrifying education We support STEM education and Electrathon America. This hands-on experience fosters student teamwork, problem-solving, mentorship and prepares them for careers in STEM and mobility. Watch a race Download the FPL EVolution app Easily locate and navigate to your closest charging station, check charger availability and explore nearby amenities. Facebook Twitter YouTube FPL Blog A NextEra Energy Company Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Safety Policy Feedback En Español Copyright © 2026, Florida Power & Light Company. All rights reserved. FPL.com is optimized for the following browsers and mobile operating systems: IE 9+, Firefox 31+, Chrome 37+, Safari 6.1+, Apple iOS 7+ and Android 4+.