SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 94

demand, which most often occurs between 5:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m., when solar facilities are providing less generation output. For these hours, as well as all other hours throughout the year, FPL needs additional, more modernized modeling analysis to determine its resource adequacy and identify where its greatest resource needs lie. Thus, for its recent resource planning, FPL added a stochastic LOLP analysis tailored to its system to identify (1) hourly periods of the year where there is increased likelihood for a loss of load, and (2) available resources that can remediate the potential for that loss. Stochastic LOLP modeling incorporates vast amounts of data to develop a granular view of a utility’s system adequacy in hour-by-hour segments. This modeling incorporates significantly more data in assessing system reliability than a traditional LOLP analysis, providing a substantially wider range of load and generation conditions across numerous scenarios. Through this analysis, a utility can more effectively determine the sufficiency of its hourly generation supply throughout the year, which, in turn, allows it to identify any needed system additions. The stochastic LOLP analysis incorporates a tremendous amount of system-specific data required to develop a probabilistic hourly load and supply projection and identify the system’s reliability needs. In comparison, a traditional reserve margin analysis provides a more limited and simplified look at system operations, examining only the peak demand hour at two times of the year - once in the winter and once in the summer - without considering the unique generation attributes of the utility’s fleet. The traditional reserve margin analysis therefore carries analytical shortcomings, particularly for systems that incorporate substantial renewable generation. For example, as FPL’s solar generation portfolio has increased, the hours of the day with the least reserves are more likely to be found in the evening as the sun begins to set and solar generation decreases. The traditional reserve margin analysis does not fully reflect this more recent trend. The traditional reserve margin analysis also fails to capture the interactive effects of non-dispatchable generation and load, which have become increasingly challenging to predict and model. The stochastic LOLP analysis addresses these shortcomings by accounting for and modeling these factors, assessing resource availability at every hour of the year and identifying the periods when reserves are most depleted, wherever they may fall. The stochastic modeling also presents a more sophisticated analysis than FPL’s prior LOLP analyses. A traditional LOLP analysis models expected generation unavailability based upon historic forced outage rates, resulting in a cumulative probability matrix of potential unit outages. The stochastic LOLP analysis, however, simulates a random selection of plant outages, which better reflects the unpredictable nature of unavailable generation as observed in normal system Florida Power & Light Company 80