SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 23

Public Service Commission (FPSC) approval for cost recovery of these later solar additions at appropriate times as has been FPL’s practice with previous solar additions. Battery Storage: Currently, FPL has 991 MW of large-scale, grid-connected battery storage installed on its system. 409 MW of battery storage was placed in-service at the existing Manatee plant site, while two 30 MW battery storage facilities were installed at the Echo River and Sunshine Gateway solar centers in the FPL service area. All of these battery storage facilities were placed into service at the end of 2021 and are charged by existing solar facilities. In the 4th Quarter of 2025, FPL placed a combined 521.5 MW of new battery storage into service. This battery storage is made up of seven 74.5 MW batteries that are co-located at existing solar sites throughout FPL’s Northwest Florida (NWFL) service area. The addition of these battery storage facilities both improves overall system reliability (especially in areas of the NWFL service area identified to have the largest need) and increases operational versatility by allowing the batteries to be charged by solar energy, the lowest cost resource available, generated at adjacent solar sites. More information on these sites can be found in the Tables and Schedules in Chapter I. FPL’s battery storage additions in 2026 through 2029 totaling 3,431 MW are consistent with FPL’s approved settlement agreement for base rates through 2029. The battery additions in 2028 and 2029 are also eligible for cost recovery through the SoBRA mechanism outlined in the 2025 Settlement Agreement. For the 2030 through 2035 time period, FPL plans to add 4,023 MW of battery storage. In total, FPL’s resource plan presented in this Site Plan projects that an additional 7,454 MW (nameplate) of battery storage facilities will be installed by 2035, which results in a total of 8,445 MW by the end of 2035. These battery storage facilities will primarily be sited adjacent to solar facilities throughout FPL’s service area. Like the 521.5 MW of battery storage sited in NWFL, these additions are projected to both improve overall system reliability and increase operational versatility by allowing batteries to be charged by the lowest cost resource available. In addition to the large-scale batteries that FPL factors into its resource planning analyses, FPL’s system also includes several smaller-scale batteries that provide varied services to FPL’s system. These batteries are discussed further in Chapter III. Development of New Combustion Turbine Generation: In the near term, solar and battery storage continue to be the most cost-effective and only available resource options for FPL customers. However, long-term trends of load growth require FPL to examine Florida Power & Light Company 9