SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 95

operations. Additionally, a traditional LOLP analysis models an expected solar generation profile, whereas the stochastic LOLP analysis produces a reliability assessment that captures the natural variability in solar production due to weather conditions. The stochastic LOLP model also better captures the synergistic interactions between load and non-dispatchable generation because it models the variability of each input separately. In 2025, the consulting firm E3 coordinated with FPL and used hourly temperature data from representative weather stations to develop hourly load profiles using a machine learning algorithm trained on actual load and temperatures from 2003 to 2023. E3 also used historic satellite data to simulate hourly solar generation at each of the current and future solar generating sites for the 1980 to 2023 period, as well as actual historical generating unit availability data to calculate an expected forced outage rate and a mean time to repair for every generating unit in the FPL fleet. The model used these inputs to randomly select which units may experience an outage at any given time within the simulations. FPL has incorporated the results of this study to produce the resource plan in this Site Plan and will continue to examine stochastic LOLP studies to accentuate future resource planning efforts. FPL’s third reliability criterion, the 10% minimum Summer and Winter GRM criterion, augments the other two reliability criteria by providing an indication of the respective roles that DSM and generation are projected to play each year as FPL maintains its 20% Summer and Winter TRMs (which account for both generation and DSM resources). All three reliability criteria are useful to identify the timing and magnitude of the resource needs because of the different perspectives the three criteria provide. In addition, the GRM criterion is particularly useful in providing direction regarding the mix of generation (solar, battery storage, etc.) and DSM resources that should be added to maintain and enhance system reliability. Step 2: Identify Resource Options and Plans That Can Meet the Determined Magnitude and Timing of Projected Resource Needs: The initial activities associated with this second fundamental step of resource planning generally proceed concurrently with the activities associated with Step 1. During Step 2, preliminary economic screening analyses of new capacity options that are identical, or virtually identical, in certain key characteristics may be conducted to determine what type of new capacity option appears to be the most competitive on FPL’s system. Preliminary analyses also can help identify capacity size (MW) values, projected construction/permitting schedules, and operating parameters and costs. Similarly, preliminary economic screening analyses of new DSM options and/or Florida Power & Light Company 81