SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 106

only” units that will provide the lowest cost backup capacity in the event of extreme winter weather in FPL’s service area. The additional dispatchable resources that FPL is adding throughout the ten-year period will also support reliability and grid stability throughout the year, including during extreme weather events. FPL will continue to work with regulatory authorities, such as the FERC, the FPSC, and the NERC, to follow their guidance regarding proper planning procedures for extreme weather events. 10. Ensuring resource adequacy and system reliability throughout the entire year: FPL’s planning processes center around maintaining the reliability of its bulk electric system. For over the past two decades, the metric that drove most of FPL’s reliability needs was its minimum 20% standard reserve margin, calculated at the time of summer and winter peak load. However, FPL’s evolving system requires more in-depth reliability metrics to fully analyze resource adequacy across every hour of the year and through various potential scenarios, including variations in load, generating outages, and solar performance. Therefore, FPL has expanded use of its LOLP metric to include stochastic modeling that fully encompasses all of these scenarios, leading to a more robust evaluation of the reliability and resource adequacy of FPL’s system. FPL’s planned resources in this Site Plan address resource adequacy concerns by adding a variety of resources throughout the ten-year period that results in a robust, reliable, and cost-effective system to serve FPL’s customers. 11. Future Impacts of Large Load customers: Over the past several years, large load customers with high load factors have grown extensively throughout the U.S. These customers have expressed interest in establishing operations within Florida, which would greatly impact the demand and energy in FPL’s future forecast. FPL’s current load projections assume that demand from large load customers will materialize starting in 2028 and reach a peak demand of 3 GW by 2035. FPL’s projections of demand and energy (and the associated resources needed to meet this demand) factor in this increase in load. FPL will continually examine the projected impacts of this demand on its future resource needs. Florida Power & Light Company 92