SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 201

5) Ongoing Research & Development Efforts: FPL has a “Living Lab” across several of its office locations and select customer sites to demonstrate FPL’s renewable energy commitment to employees and visitors. Through various Living Lab projects, FPL is able to evaluate multiple solar and storage technologies and applications for the purpose of developing a renewable business model resulting in the most cost-effective and reliable uses for FPL’s customers. FPL currently has approximately 293 kW of PV as part of the Living Lab, including a 157 kW floating solar installation in Miami-Dade County that can enable FPL to compare generation and O&M costs for floating versus ground- mount solar. In 2020, FPL expanded the Living Lab to include residential sites around Palm Beach County to test battery storage in a residential setting. The test addresses both potential benefits of having a 5-to-8 kW storage system for home backup power and the ability of FPL to remotely control the storage systems to provide services to the electric grid. In 2021, FPL added solar paired with battery storage in a residential setting and 460 kW of linear generators. FPL plans to continue to expand the Living Lab as new technologies come to market. FPL has also been in discussions with several private companies on multiple emerging technology initiatives, including ocean current, thermal storage, hydrogen, fuel cell technology, and energy storage. Regarding solar’s impact on the FPL system, FPL developed a methodology to determine what firm capacity value at FPL’s Summer and Winter peak hours would be appropriate to apply to existing and potential solar facilities. The potential capacity contribution of solar facilities is dependent upon several factors including: site location, technology, design, and the total amount of solar that is operating on FPL’s system. Based on the results of its analyses using that methodology, firm capacity values are assigned to each new solar facility. These firm capacity values are described in terms of the percentage of the facility’s nameplate (AC) rating that can be counted on as firm capacity at the Summer and Winter peak load hours. For example, two of FPL’s earliest solar facilities, DeSoto and Space Coast, have been assigned firm capacity values of approximately 46% for DeSoto and 32% for Space Coast at FPL’s Summer peak hour (that typically occurs in the 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. hour), but contribute firm capacity of only 3% for DeSoto and 1% for Space Coast during FPL’s Winter peak hour (that typically occurs in the 7 a.m. to 8 a.m. hour). Similarly, each new solar facility is assigned a specific firm capacity value based on the factors described above. Information on each solar unit’s firm capacity is available in the footnotes of Schedule 1 in Chapter I and the entries for new units in Schedule 8 later in this chapter. FPL will continue to Florida Power & Light Company 187