SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 210

distance travel. These places include Florida’s Turnpike Service Plazas, public parking areas, tourist attractions, hospitals, and large businesses that employ hundreds of Florida residents. As part of FPL’s 2021 Settlement Agreement, FPL received approval to expand the initial FPL EVolution® Pilot and add additional EV programs that were launched in 2022, including: i) public fast charging, ii) new technologies and software, iii) education and outreach, iv) a voluntary residential EV charging services tariff, and v) a voluntary fleet EV charging services tariff. In addition, pursuant to Order No. 2020-0512-TRF-EI, issued December 21, 2020, FPL has implemented three optional five-year EV public charging pilot tariffs. The first tariff, Utility- Owned Public Charging for Electric Vehicles (Rate Schedule UEV), establishes a rate for FPL to charge drivers directly at certain utility-owned FPL EVolution® fast charging stations. The second set of tariffs, Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Riders to General Service Demand and General Service Large Demand (Rate Schedules GSD-1EV and GSLD-1EV), limit the demand cost associated with general service demand rates billed to third-party public charging stations operating in FPL’s service area. The tariffs took effect in January 2021 and will last for a period of five years. As of December 31, 2025, FPL EVolution® Public has installed 910 Level 2 charging ports and 321 fast charging ports. There are 76 FPL EVolution fast charging sites operating under the UEV rate schedule and approximately 200 additional ports expected to be online by the end of 2026. FPL has also added 274 charging ports under the fleet pilot in 2024 and 30 Level 2 charging ports under the CEVCS-1 tariff in 2025. Additionally, FPL added 9,007 Level 2 chargers for residential customers, allowing managed EV charging during off-peak hours, avoiding additional load during peak. Furthermore, the 2025 rate case settlement modified the existing EV programs in various ways. First, it made the demand-limiter tariffs permanent and added a new demand limiter tariff, GSLD-2EV, for very large charging sites. The public fast charging pilot came to an end, port count was capped at 585 ports, and pricing was increased from $0.30/kWh to $0.45/kWh following an increasing schedule. A new “Make-Ready Credit” program was also approved that accelerates site economics for new charging providers by offsetting utility upgrade costs. The Residential EV Home tariffs (RS-1EV/RS-2EV) were approved subject to repricing to better align program costs and revenues. Finally, the PSC extended FPL’s Fleet pilot program and the associated CEVCS-1 tariff. The FPL EVolution® pilot has provided FPL valuable early insights and best practices into EV charging infrastructure deployment in the areas of siting, equipment, installation, and grid reliability. Florida Power & Light Company 196