SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 62

models were segmented by rate code, and the models were a combination of regression models and exponential smoothing models. The commercial regression models included employment for Florida, Florida Gross State Product, lag dependent variables, and binary variables. The industrial customer models were also segmented by rate code, and the models were a combination of a regression model and exponential smoothing models. The industrial regression model included housing starts, lagged dependent variables, and a binary variable. The customer forecasts for the Metro and Other customer classes were developed by applying the last known value since little to no changes are expected in these customer classes. The Street & Highway Lighting forecast was developed by the FPL lighting team. Resale (wholesale) customers were forecasted based on known or likely wholesale contracts. Total customer growth is projected to grow at an average annual rate of 1.1% during the forecast period. The primary driver of customer growth is population growth. II.C. Energy Sales Forecasts Energy sales forecasts for the integrated system for 2026 and beyond are the sum of the respective class-level energy sales forecasts for the Legacy FPL and FPL NWFL areas. First, forecasts were developed for the major revenue classes, wholesale energy sales, and losses. Next, energy adjustments were calculated for factors such as electric vehicles and private solar, and were applied to the class-level energy sales forecasts. Finally, these forecasts were aggregated to arrive at NEL forecasts (a bottom-up approach). The statistical models used in the energy sales forecasting process were developed using the software package MetrixND. The methods and tools used to develop the energy sales forecasts were consistent with those used for prior Site Plans, with routine updates to include additional historical data and updated economic projections, along with minor updates to model specifications. 1. Residential Sales The residential energy sales forecasts were developed using econometric models. Residential energy sales were first expressed as monthly use per customer per billing day. The forecasted energy use per customer per billing day was then multiplied by the projected number of billing days and customers to arrive at the residential billed energy sales forecast. The billed energy sales were then adjusted for unbilled energy to arrive at the calendar month delivered energy sales forecast. The residential energy use per customer per billing day models include variables for cooling degree hours, heating degree hours, the moving average of real electricity price Florida Power & Light Company 48