SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/reliability/andytown-oasis-project.html

FPL | Andytown-Oasis Project Skip to Main Content /content/fplgp/us/en/northwest/about/safety/rights-of-way.html Which region would you like to access today? FPL OR FPL Northwest FL CONTINUE Andytown-Oasis Project Delivering reliable energy for today and tomorrow. FPL is committed to delivering reliable service to our customers and properly planning for anticipated growth throughout the state. To do so, the company continues to invest in our energy grid. FPL is proposing to construct four new transmission lines extending approximately 30-miles from Broward to Miami-Dade County. The proposed transmission lines would maintain system reliability for our customers and support growth in the area. Over the next eight years, from 2026 to 2033, we anticipate an increase of approximately 220,000 new customers and/or approximately 11% increase in load in the Miami-Dade Area. Quick Facts The Andytown-Oasis project includes four transmission lines: One 500kV transmission line from FPL’s existing Andytown substation to the planned Oasis substation. One 500kV transmission line from FPL’s existing Quarry substation to the planned Oasis substation. One 230kV transmission line from FPL’s planned Oasis substation to the existing Levee substation. One 230kV transmission line from FPL’s planned Oasis substation to the existing Quarry substation. FPL evaluated various potential routes for the new transmission line corridor, some of which include existing rights-of-ways, and identified a preliminary preferred corridor. FPL is committed to keeping the community informed throughout the process and we will provide additional information as the project progresses. FPL has filed an application under the Florida’s Electric Transmission Line Siting Act. FPL will work safely and respectfully and abide by applicable environmental and governmental regulations. FPL plans to complete the projects in 2033. Project Timeline Early 2026: Public Engagement and Input 2026-2028: Design and Permitting Early 2029: Start Construction Late 2033: Project Completion Construction Process Construction consists of right-of-way clearing, access road construction (where necessary), line construction and restoration Structures are generally delivered using semi-trucks and trailers Vegetation management is conducted according to approved standards Equipment used for construction typically includes trucks, trailers, cranes, auger diggers and other support vehicles Permitting FPL will abide by applicable regulations After review of various factors and constraints, FPL identified multiple routes and a preliminary preferred corridor for the proposed transmission lines The project will be licensed through the Transmission Line Siting Act (TSLA) administered by the Florida Department of Environmental Protection: ○ Streamlines all State and local agency permitting approvals into a single process ○ Allows for feedback from agencies and the public on the Preferred Corridor ○ Application filed in May 2026. Additional federal permits will be obtained after the route is selected Environmental and Cultural Resources The following resources are being analyzed: ○ Vegetation ○ Wildlife ○ Aquatic Life ○ Scenic, Cultural, and Natural Landmarks ○ Archaeological and Historic Sites Contact Information: Phone: 561-694-4826 Email: reliability@fpl.com Preliminary Preferred Corridor View PDF version Typical Transmission Structures 500kV Transmission Lines 230kV Transmission Line Stages of Construction Stages of construction About FPL News Company Careers Environment Community Donate to Care To Share® Rates and Your Bill About Energy Energy My Way Ensuring Reliability Diverse Energy Sources Electric Vehicles Power Disturbances Safety Partner Resources Supplier Home and Login DSM Contractor Portal Fuel Portal Building and Construction Land Use Assist Agency Login WebTAXI Login Deposit Portal En Español INGLÉS ESPAÑOL Ahora la información que necesitas sobre tu servicio eléctrico está disponible en español en FPL.com. Facebook Twitter YouTube FPL Blog A NextEra Energy Company Terms & Conditions Privacy Policy Safety Policy Feedback En Español Copyright © 2026, Florida Power & Light Company. All rights reserved. FPL.com is optimized for the following browsers and mobile operating systems: IE 9+, Firefox 31+, Chrome 37+, Safari 6.1+, Apple iOS 7+ and Android 4+. Our websites use technologies (e.g., cookies, pixels, and session replay technology) for site functionality, analytics, performance, fraud-detection, and targeted advertising. Your interactions and personal data may be collected on our websites by us and providers of these technologies (e.g., Meta, Google, LinkedIn) in accordance with our Privacy Policy. Using the website(s) will be treated as your consent to the practices in our Privacy Policy and Terms and Conditions .