SOURCE URL: https://www.fpl.com/content/dam/fplgp/us/en/about/pdf/ten-year-site-plan.pdf
PAGE: 195

III.F. Renewable Resources and Storage Technology FPL’s Renewable Energy Efforts Through 2025: FPL has been the leading Florida utility in examining ways to effectively utilize renewable energy technologies to serve its customers. Since 1976, FPL has been an industry leader in renewable energy research and development and in facilitating the implementation of various renewable energy technologies. FPL’s (including FPL NWFL) renewable energy efforts through 2025 are briefly discussed below in five categories of solar/renewable activities. Plans for new renewable energy facilities from 2026-2035 are then discussed in a separate section. 1) Early Research & Development Efforts: In the late 1970s, FPL assisted the Florida Solar Energy Center (FSEC) in demonstrating the first residential PV system east of the Mississippi River. This PV installation at FSEC’s Brevard County location was in operation for more than 15 years and provided valuable information about PV performance capabilities in Florida on both a daily and annual basis. In 1984, FPL installed a second PV system at its Flagami substation in Miami. This 10-kilowatt (kW) system operated for several years before it was removed to make room for substation expansion. In addition, FPL maintained a thin-film PV test facility at the FPL Martin Plant Site for several years to test new thin-film PV technologies. 2) Demand-Side & Customer Efforts: In terms of utilizing renewable energy sources to meet its customers’ needs, FPL initiated the first utility-sponsored conservation program in Florida designed to facilitate the implementation of solar technologies by its customers. FPL’s Conservation Water Heating Program, first implemented in 1982, offered incentive payments to customers who chose solar water heaters. Before the program ended (because it was no longer cost-effective), FPL paid incentives to approximately 48,000 customers who installed solar water heaters. In the mid-1980s, FPL introduced another renewable energy program, FPL’s Passive Home Program. This program was created to broadly disseminate information about passive solar building design techniques that are most applicable in Florida’s climate. As part of this program, three Florida architectural firms created complete construction blueprints for six passive home designs with the assistance of the FSEC and FPL. These designs and blueprints were available to customers at a low cost. During its existence, the program received a U.S. Florida Power & Light Company 181