SOURCE URL: https://www.ouc.com/solutions-programs/electric-vehicles/charging/

Electric Vehicles | Charging Stations in Central Florida | OUC Skip to content System Upgrade: Due to a scheduled system upgrade, myOUC, OUC’s automated phone system, and text messaging are unavailable. If you are experiencing an electric or water outage, please use our 24-hour outage reporting line at 407-423-9018 . Scheduled maintenance will occur until 8 a.m., Sunday, September 27. During this time, nonpayment disconnections have been suspended for traditional and OUC Power Pass customers. In-person payments will be credited to your account Saturday evening, September 26. Careers Business Contact OUC English Español Log in My Account Pay My Bill Usage Dashboard OUC Alerts Start, Stop or Move Service My OUC Energy Coach Understanding My Bill Using myOUC Service Rates & Costs Smart Meters Solutions & Programs Saving Solutions Rebates Efficiency Delivered Conservation Audits Save Energy & Water Tips Billing Programs OUC Power Pass Budget Billing Business Solutions Development Services Economic Development District Cooling Services Indoor Lighting Services Outdoor Lighting Services Delegated Authority Power Quality & Consumption Analysis Vertical Real Estate - Attachments Portable Water Meters Solar Programs SunChoice for Business SunChoice for Home Rooftop Solar Electric Vehicle Programs EV Charging Hubs EV Benefits & Education Commercial EV Programs Preferred Contractor Network Become a Preferred Contactor Home Warranty Programs Customer Service Contact OUC Report Misuse Bill Inserts & Reports Outage Map Financial & Medical Assistance Report an Outage or Problem Weather & Safety Tips Storm Center Sustainability Sustainability Goals Sustainability at Our Facilities Solar Initiatives Caring for the Environment Electric Vehicle Initiatives Community Commitment to Our Community Community Focus Areas Water Color Project Watts Savings Project Community Requests About OUC Who We Are Our Business Locations OUC’s Commission Newsroom Careers OUC Internships Government Relations & Financials Doing Business With OUC Infrastructure Projects Electric Services Electric Demand Water Services Pay My Bills Report a Problem Start / Stop/ Move Service Business Contact Us Careers Search OUC.com Search Search Log In to myOUC Username Password Forgot Username? Forgot Password? Register EV Charging in Central Florida Charge at home or on the go with an extensive network of public and private charging stations. OUC ReCharge Mobility Hub at Robinson 129 W Robinson St, Orlando, FL 32801 Located on Robinson Street near N. Garland Avenue, between I-4 and the SunRail train tracks in downtown Orlando. Features 21 ports: 14 CCS ports and 1 CHAdeMO port at 120kW 3 CCS ports 3 NACS ports at 240kW Get Directions OUC ReCharge Mobility Hub at OCCC 8500 Tradeshow Blvd, Orlando, FL 32819 Located at the north concourse entrance of the Orange County Convention Center (OCCC). Features 6 CCS ports at 240kW get directions Charge Cost $0.40 per kWh ( fees may vary ) Charge Time 20 minutes = 100 miles* *Range per hour varies by vehicle Charge Type Level 3-rated DC fast chargers (120 kW to 240kW) Featuring CCS and CHAdeMO ports NACS adapters available Hub Hours Open to the public 24/7/365 Using the ChargeUp App at ReCharge Hubs In order to utilize OUC’s Recharge Hubs, and other public and private charging stations, you will need to install the ChargeUp app. Download for Apple | Download for Android Step 1: Start Your Session Option 1: Open the ChargeUp app and scan the QR code on the charging station screen. Option 2: Open the ChargeUp app and type in the charging station ID listed on the label. Option 3: Hold the RFID card against the reader to activate the charging process. Step 2: Charge, Wait & Monitor Plug the connector, with an adapter if needed, into your vehicle’s charging port. You can wait at the Recharge Hub while your EV charges or visit nearby downtown businesses. Please keep an eye on your charging status so you can end the session once your charge is complete. An idle fee of $1.00 per minute is applied after a 10-minute grace period if the vehicle is fully charged and the session has not ended. When finished, please remove the connector from the port and return the cable to the station. Recharge Hub and ChargeUp App FAQs Why is my charging session not working? Be sure to check the following: The charger is on and operating You are connected to the ChargeUp app You have funds in your account You are using the appropriate cable for your vehicle The cable is fully plugged into the charging port If issues persist, please contact OUC at (407) 434-2890 . For issues relating to the charger interface or app please contact ChargeUp at (833) 789-1400 . This information can also be found on the ChargeUp app. What is an idle fee? Am I paying the fee to park while I am charging? An idle fee is a $1.00 per minute fee that occurs when a vehicle has fully charged but has remained connected to the charger for more than 10 minutes. The idle fee is not billed while your vehicle is actively charging. Please monitor your charging session either at the charger or through the ChargeUp app so you can disconnect and allow other customers to use the charging location once your vehicle has been fully charged. Why am I not getting the advertised charging speeds? A DC fast charger can typically charge an EV to 80% in about 30 minutes. Charging from 80% to 100% typically takes about the same time as it does to charge to 80%. Charging speeds may vary for a few reasons: Temperature: Some EVs may have internal battery management systems to protect the battery from overheating, so the charging rate may be reduced to protect the health of the battery. Charging can also become less efficient in extreme temperatures because energy is being used to heat or cool the battery as needed. The charge of your vehicle: An EV’s charge rate starts fast and reduces as the battery fills. This is to protect your battery from overheating. So, if your EV is able to accept 120kW, it may get that speed at the beginning depending on the state of charge, and then will quickly reduce until the battery is full. The charging speed capabilities of your vehicle: Different vehicles have different maximum charging speeds. For example, one vehicle may have a maximum charge rate of 55kW while another may have a maximum charge rate of 350kW. The vehicle with the 55kW maximum will not be able to accept the full 120kW or 240kW as advertised. Power sharing: Our stations use power sharing, so chargers that are connected to the same power source will split the power. For example, if two cars are plugged into the same dual-port, 240kW station each plug will have a maximum charge of 120kW. As a best practice, leave one parking space between you and another vehicle. What are the best practices for connecting the charger with my car? OUC electric vehicle charging hubs feature Direct Current (DC) fast charging stations, which can only provide charge for vehicles that are all-battery electric. Plug-in hybrid vehicles are not compatible with DC fast charge. DC fast charging can be done using different connector types. Our hub connectors include CCS-1, 1 CHAdeMO, and NACS (Tesla). Be sure you pick the appropriate connector for your vehicle. Am I able to use these chargers if I own a Tesla? Yes, our stations use the CCS connector, but there are additional steps you should follow: 1. Ensure that your vehicle is CCS adapter enabled. Verify this by going to your vehicle’s settings. If your vehicle is not CCS adapter enabled, you will not be able to use the CCS connectors without a retrofit, which is sold by Tesla. Look under software ➔ additional vehicle information ➔ CCS adapter support: Enabled or Not Installed 2. If your vehicle is CCS adapter enabled, you will need to charge using a CCS Combo 1 adapter, which is different from the J1772 adapter that comes with a Tesla purchase (the J1772 adapter is for Level 2 charging). OUC’s ReCharge Mobility Hubs include CCS adapters for use by customers, but you may also bring your own to use. When using a CCS adapter, for ease of use, we recommend connecting the adapter to the CCS port first and then plugging it into your vehicle. Has my car been towed? Parking is only for EVs in a charging session. There is a four-hour charging limit at OUC Recharge Hubs. Vehicles that have charging sessions over four hours are subject to be towed at the owner’s expense. If you believe your vehicle has been towed, contact Johnson’s Wrecker Service at (407) 293-2540 or (800) 940-8693 . Charge Around Town Have a bit more time to charge while you shop or dine? OUC operates or maintains over 300 Level 2 chargers strategically located throughout the region. Use the map below to find a location near you. Charging Around Central Florida Find a charging station to charge your EV when you’re on the go around town. Charging Your EV at Home You can charge your EV using regular household outlets or by installing special equipment to charge your battery faster. Need Assistance with Installation? OUC offers a Preferred Contractor Network to connect you with qualified contractors who can help you with installation. Preferred Contractor Network EV Home Charging 101 There are a few levels of charging for EVs: Level 1, Level 2 and DC Fast Charger. Not sure where to start? Download our electric vehicle home charging guide to get started. get the guide Want to bring EV charging to your location? Plug-in and charge-up with OUC’s commercial electric vehicle charging service. Learn more about our hassle-free, cost-effective EV charging solutions. learn More Related Content Benefits of Electric Vehicles Learn why going electric means saving money, reducing emissions and enjoying OUC EV rebates, incentives and convenient charging stations across Orlando. Learn More Commercial EV Programs Install an EV charging station or convert your fleet to electric-OUC experts are ready to help. Buy or rent EV chargers or contact us to electrify your fleet. Learn More OUC’s Electric Vehicle Initiatives OUC is leading the charge in Central Florida’s EV growth with charging stations, public transit electrification support, and its own fleet electrification. Learn More Facebook X Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom Government Relations & Financials Doing Business with OUC Copyright © 2026 Orlando Utilities Commission. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Share Feedback This website uses online tracking technologies such as cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, save your preferences and to enable personalized advertising on and off OUC.com. By continuing to access and use our sites and services, you accept and agree to our Terms of Service. Learn more Allow Cookies Decline