SOURCE URL: https://www.ouc.com/solutions-programs/electric-vehicles/commercial-programs/

Commercial EV Services | Fleet Electrification & Charging Stations Skip to content System Upgrade: Due to a scheduled system upgrade, myOUC, OUC’s automated phone system, and text messaging are unavailable. If you are experiencing an electric or water outage, please use our 24-hour outage reporting line at 407-423-9018 . Scheduled maintenance will occur until 8 a.m., Sunday, September 27. During this time, nonpayment disconnections have been suspended for traditional and OUC Power Pass customers. In-person payments will be credited to your account Saturday evening, September 26. Careers Business Contact OUC English Español Log in My Account Pay My Bill Usage Dashboard OUC Alerts Start, Stop or Move Service My OUC Energy Coach Understanding My Bill Using myOUC Service Rates & Costs Smart Meters Solutions & Programs Saving Solutions Rebates Efficiency Delivered Conservation Audits Save Energy & Water Tips Billing Programs OUC Power Pass Budget Billing Business Solutions Development Services Economic Development District Cooling Services Indoor Lighting Services Outdoor Lighting Services Delegated Authority Power Quality & Consumption Analysis Vertical Real Estate - Attachments Portable Water Meters Solar Programs SunChoice for Business SunChoice for Home Rooftop Solar Electric Vehicle Programs EV Charging Hubs EV Benefits & Education Commercial EV Programs Preferred Contractor Network Become a Preferred Contactor Home Warranty Programs Customer Service Contact OUC Report Misuse Bill Inserts & Reports Outage Map Financial & Medical Assistance Report an Outage or Problem Weather & Safety Tips Storm Center Sustainability Sustainability Goals Sustainability at Our Facilities Solar Initiatives Caring for the Environment Electric Vehicle Initiatives Community Commitment to Our Community Community Focus Areas Water Color Project Watts Savings Project Community Requests About OUC Who We Are Our Business Locations OUC’s Commission Newsroom Careers OUC Internships Government Relations & Financials Doing Business With OUC Infrastructure Projects Electric Services Electric Demand Water Services Pay My Bills Report a Problem Start / Stop/ Move Service Business Contact Us Careers Search OUC.com Search Search Log In to myOUC Username Password Forgot Username? Forgot Password? Register Commercial EV Programs | Fleets & Charging Infrastructure Whether you want to provide onsite EV charging or convert your fleet to electric, OUC experts are standing by ready to help. Get Started with EVs Charge at Your Location Plug-in and Charge-up with OUC’s commercial electric vehicle charging service. We can help you keep your workforce, customers or residents on the move with hassle-free, cost-effective EV charging stations. Green Advantage Lets you offer electric vehicle charging to both your customers and employees. Electrify Operations Provides you with a service to power up your own electric vehicle fleet. Drive Foot Traffic Increases customer traffic as they wait for their vehicle to charge. Lower Emissions Helps reduce carbon emissions. About the Commercial Charging Program Download our catalog for more information about our EV charging stations, including a list of charger models available. Download the Catalog Where are the charging station options? There are two options in the Commercial Charging Program: Charge-It : OUC owns, installs and maintains stations. You can obtain electric vehicle charging services from OUC for a fixed monthly fee over a contracted period of time. The fee is based on the specific characteristics of your site and the equipment type. Own-It : OUC designs, procures and installs stations. You pay for the equipment and installation that OUC provides, then you own it immediately. What types of chargers are available? For a complete list of charger models available, download our catalog. Charging Option Power Required Charging Time* Level 2 208 or 240-volt 3.5+ hours Level 3 480-volt 30+ minutes Interested in Adding EV Charging to Your Location? We’ll help you determine if your site is EV-ready. Fill out our contact form to help us gather information and better assist you with your charging needs. Contact us Electrify Your Fleet Our fleet electrification program will help you develop an EV transition strategy tailored to your specific needs. Comprehensive Consultation Whether you’re starting out or already in the process, OUC specialists are equipped to develop a customized fleet electrification plan that aligns with your goals. We offer capital cost projections and total cost of ownership analysis to guide your decisions. We will analyze your current fleet and identify targets for conversion within minutes, offering direct comparisons between gas and electric vehicles. This includes information on purchase prices, federal and state incentives, infrastructure costs and more. Site Assessment OUC experts assist you in developing your EV infrastructure plan by evaluating your current electrical capacity, recommending appropriate chargers, determining the best location for these, and identifying necessary infrastructure improvements. Our design services include detailed cost estimates, providing you with the confidence to move forward. Once you are ready, our installation experts carry out custom project plans for you, ensuring long-lasting performance and reliability. EV Fleet Vehicle Types During the consultation, our team will analyze your fleet vehicle needs regardless of the vehicle type. Passenger Sedans Shuttle Buses & Utility Carts Public Transit & School Buses Delivery Vans and Trucks Contact Us to Electrify Your Fleet Once you’ve decided to go electric, our team will guide you through the vehicle and infrastructure purchasing process and help determine the best approach for ordering and deploying EVs. GET STARTED Related Content Benefits of Electric Vehicles Learn why going electric means saving money, reducing emissions and enjoying OUC EV rebates, incentives and convenient charging stations across Orlando. Learn More Electric Vehicle Charging Charge your EV at home or when on the go in the Orlando area with help from OUC. Visit one of our ReCharge Mobility Hubs anytime. Learn More Electric Vehicle Initiatives OUC is leading the charge in Central Florida’s EV growth with charging stations, public transit electrification support, and its own fleet electrification. Learn More Facebook X Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom Government Relations & Financials Doing Business with OUC Copyright © 2026 Orlando Utilities Commission. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Share Feedback This website uses online tracking technologies such as cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, save your preferences and to enable personalized advertising on and off OUC.com. By continuing to access and use our sites and services, you accept and agree to our Terms of Service. Learn more Allow Cookies Decline