SOURCE URL: https://www.ouc.com/solutions-programs/billing/budget-billing/

Budget Billing | Make Your Utility Bills More Predictable | OUC Skip to content System Upgrade: Due to a scheduled system upgrade, myOUC, OUC’s automated phone system, and text messaging are unavailable. If you are experiencing an electric or water outage, please use our 24-hour outage reporting line at 407-423-9018 . Scheduled maintenance will occur until 8 a.m., Sunday, September 27. During this time, nonpayment disconnections have been suspended for traditional and OUC Power Pass customers. In-person payments will be credited to your account Saturday evening, September 26. Careers Business Contact OUC English Español Log in My Account Pay My Bill Usage Dashboard OUC Alerts Start, Stop or Move Service My OUC Energy Coach Understanding My Bill Using myOUC Service Rates & Costs Smart Meters Solutions & Programs Saving Solutions Rebates Efficiency Delivered Conservation Audits Save Energy & Water Tips Billing Programs OUC Power Pass Budget Billing Business Solutions Development Services Economic Development District Cooling Services Indoor Lighting Services Outdoor Lighting Services Delegated Authority Power Quality & Consumption Analysis Vertical Real Estate - Attachments Portable Water Meters Solar Programs SunChoice for Business SunChoice for Home Rooftop Solar Electric Vehicle Programs EV Charging Hubs EV Benefits & Education Commercial EV Programs Preferred Contractor Network Become a Preferred Contactor Home Warranty Programs Customer Service Contact OUC Report Misuse Bill Inserts & Reports Outage Map Financial & Medical Assistance Report an Outage or Problem Weather & Safety Tips Storm Center Sustainability Sustainability Goals Sustainability at Our Facilities Solar Initiatives Caring for the Environment Electric Vehicle Initiatives Community Commitment to Our Community Community Focus Areas Water Color Project Watts Savings Project Community Requests About OUC Who We Are Our Business Locations OUC’s Commission Newsroom Careers OUC Internships Government Relations & Financials Doing Business With OUC Infrastructure Projects Electric Services Electric Demand Water Services Pay My Bills Report a Problem Start / Stop/ Move Service Business Contact Us Careers Search OUC.com Search Search Log In to myOUC Username Password Forgot Username? Forgot Password? Register Budget Billing Smooth out the seasonal ups and downs of your utility bill. With Budget Billing, you pay a fixed amount each month, making it easier to plan ahead and keep your budget on track throughout the year. It’s free to join and easy to set up through your myOUC account. Enroll Today How It Works OUC calculates your monthly payment amount based on your average monthly utility bill over the past 12 months.* Once enrolled, you’ll pay a fixed amount each month. Your actual usage is still measured monthly, but your payments stay steady for 12 months, making it easier to manage your household or business budget. Enrollment is free and only takes a few minutes through your myOUC account. Detailed Billing Your monthly bill will continue to show your real usage and charges along with your Budget Billing details. You’ll see: Actual meter readings and consumption. Actual bill amount due based on your consumption. Fixed Budget Billing amount due. You budget deferred balance - the variance between your actual bill and your Budget Billing amount. This difference may be a credit or debit amount. A message advising of any additional charges due, along with the budgeted amount. This transparency helps you track your usage and budget effectively. The Enrollment Process Step 1 Log in to your myOUC account and complete the Budget Billing enrollment form. ENROLL NOW Step 2 A customer service representative will review your eligibility and confirm your monthly payment amount. Step 3 One you enroll, continue paying your current OUC balance until “Budget Billing” appears on your statement. Once it does, your new fixed monthly payments begin. Frequently Asked Questions *What charges are included when calculating my 12-month average? OUC calculates your Budget Billing payment based on the average of your utility bills over the past 12 months, including electric and/or water, solid waste, wastewater and taxes. To help prevent a growing deferred balance, an additional percentage at the discretion of OUC will be added to the monthly amount due. If your actual usage significantly deviates from the budgeted amount (exceeds a 20% difference), the monthly budget amount may be recalculated before the 12-month period ends. What happens after I am on the budget billing for 12 months? After 12 months, your account will go through year-end reconciliation. This means your monthly budget amount will be recalculated based on your actual bill amount for the past 12 months. Your total payments will be compared with the actual total charges for the year. What happens if I use more energy and/or water than accounted for? If your actual amount due for the year surpasses the Budget Billing amount paid, you will be billed for the difference in the 12th month of the plan in addition to your monthly payment amount. Are additional charges added to my budget billing amount? Additional charges, adjustments and financed installments that are not part of the Budget Billing plan will appear as separate line items on your bill. These charges are in addition to the Budget Billing amount due. Is there a fee to participate in Budget Billing? No, Budget Billing is a free service available to OUC residential and small business customers. How do I renew my enrollment? Your 12-month Budget Billing plan will be renewed automatically. We’ll notify you of your plan renewal and your new Budget Billing amount so you can determine if you want to stay in the program. What if I want to cancel my plan? You can cancel your participation in the Budget Billing program at any time. However, if you used more than you paid for, you will be billed for the difference. This amount will be due at the time of your cancellation. If you paid for more than you used, you will receive a credit on your next month’s bill. What if I don’t have 12 months of consumption history at my location? A minimum of six months of usage is required, though 12 months is preferred. Are all customers eligible to participate? Customers who have been active for less than 6 months, OUC Power Pass customers, commercial customers using Demand Meters, and customers in premises that utilize chilled water for cooling are not eligible to participate in the Budget Billing program. Customers who have a past due balance must pay the past due balance before becoming eligible for the program. One enrolled, you may be removed from the Budget Billing program if a monthly payment is missed, a check payment is returned due to insufficient funds, we receive two returned checks, or if you accrue a past due balance. Ready to Get Started? There’s no cost to join and you can enroll in minutes through your myOUC account. ENROLL NOW Related Content OUC Power Pass Prepaid electric service with no deposits, late fees or reconnect fees. OUC Power Pass is a flexible alternative to traditional electric service. Learn More Understanding My Bill Our sample bill can help explain all the details on your utility bill, so you know exactly what you’re paying for every month. Learn More Financial & Medical Assistance Get support with OUC’s assistance programs, including utility bill payment help via Project CARE, our medical alert program and more. Learn More Service Rates & Costs OUC offers transparent utility rates and costs. View our electric rates, water rates and more to better understand your billing and options. Learn More My Usage Dashboard Monitor your daily and hourly energy and water consumption with OUC’s Usage Dashboard. Set up alerts and view your usage trends. Learn More Rebates Apply online for rebates on 20+ energy and water-saving upgrades-from heat pump A/C units to smart irrigation controllers and even EVs. Learn More Facebook X Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom Government Relations & Financials Doing Business with OUC Copyright © 2026 Orlando Utilities Commission. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Share Feedback This website uses online tracking technologies such as cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, save your preferences and to enable personalized advertising on and off OUC.com. By continuing to access and use our sites and services, you accept and agree to our Terms of Service. Learn more Allow Cookies Decline