SOURCE URL: https://www.ouc.com/community/focus-areas/watt-savings-project/

Watt Savings Project | Teachers & Students | OUC Skip to content System Upgrade: Due to a scheduled system upgrade, myOUC, OUC’s automated phone system, and text messaging are unavailable. If you are experiencing an electric or water outage, please use our 24-hour outage reporting line at 407-423-9018 . Scheduled maintenance will occur until 8 a.m., Sunday, September 27. During this time, nonpayment disconnections have been suspended for traditional and OUC Power Pass customers. In-person payments will be credited to your account Saturday evening, September 26. Careers Business Contact OUC English Español Log in My Account Pay My Bill Usage Dashboard OUC Alerts Start, Stop or Move Service My OUC Energy Coach Understanding My Bill Using myOUC Service Rates & Costs Smart Meters Solutions & Programs Saving Solutions Rebates Efficiency Delivered Conservation Audits Save Energy & Water Tips Billing Programs OUC Power Pass Budget Billing Business Solutions Development Services Economic Development District Cooling Services Indoor Lighting Services Outdoor Lighting Services Delegated Authority Power Quality & Consumption Analysis Vertical Real Estate - Attachments Portable Water Meters Solar Programs SunChoice for Business SunChoice for Home Rooftop Solar Electric Vehicle Programs EV Charging Hubs EV Benefits & Education Commercial EV Programs Preferred Contractor Network Become a Preferred Contactor Home Warranty Programs Customer Service Contact OUC Report Misuse Bill Inserts & Reports Outage Map Financial & Medical Assistance Report an Outage or Problem Weather & Safety Tips Storm Center Sustainability Sustainability Goals Sustainability at Our Facilities Solar Initiatives Caring for the Environment Electric Vehicle Initiatives Community Commitment to Our Community Community Focus Areas Water Color Project Watts Savings Project Community Requests About OUC Who We Are Our Business Locations OUC’s Commission Newsroom Careers OUC Internships Government Relations & Financials Doing Business With OUC Infrastructure Projects Electric Services Electric Demand Water Services Pay My Bills Report a Problem Start / Stop/ Move Service Business Contact Us Careers Search OUC.com Search Search Log In to myOUC Username Password Forgot Username? Forgot Password? Register Watts Savings Project The Watts Savings Project teaches fourth- and fifth-grade students about the importance of saving energy. Students are inspired to reduce electricity consumption and tasked with creating artwork to express the importance of energy conservation. This program is open to Osceola County Public School students in OUC’s service area. Calendar Design Project For fourth- and fifth-grade students. Students work with art instructors to develop positive energy conservation messages or slogans. They can then express their artistic talent by creating artwork that illustrates the message or slogan. Selected art pieces will be included in OUC’s Energy Conservation Calendar. Entry Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions For more information about the program, please contact Community Engagement at [email protected] . Please see the project guidelines and forms documents for complete submission deadlines, design tips and entry guidelines. How can i participate in the program? Submit a participation form for the calendar contest by Friday, September 4, 2026. You can review then entry guidelines for the calendar design project by downloading our 2027 Calendar Design Project Entry Guidelines PDF document. How does the calendar contest work? Thirteen (13) pieces of artwork will be selected for the next year’s Energy Conservation calendar. One will be featured on the calendar’s cover, and the other 12 winners will represent the months of the year. The names of the students, schools, principals and coordinating art instructors will also be published in the calendar. All selected students will receive a plaque of their winning artwork and will be formally recognized at the Watts Savings Project Awards Ceremony sponsored by OUC. All students who submit artwork will receive a certificate of participation. Will OUC provide all art materials? OUC will provide participants with paper (8 ½ x 11 in.). Students must use the paper provided. No additional materials will be provided. Paint, watercolors, Crayons, colored markers, or any other appropriate media are acceptable. How many entries can be submitted to the contest? Each school may select a maximum of six (6) entries from fourth- and fifth-grade students for the Calendar Design Project. Where do I send my artwork? Please send all entries to Dr. Joseph R. D’Ambrosi, Watts Savings Project, School District of Osceola County, via school courier or drop off. Participation forms must be emailed to [email protected] . How will the entries be judged? All entries will be judged based on their originality, artistic skill, the energy conservation message/slogan created and their suitability for reproduction in the calendar. Each piece of artwork must illustrate an energy conservation message/slogan conveyed in a positive way. Drawing a Brighter Future 2026 Watts Savings Calendar For the 2 nd year, The School District of Osceola County’s fourth and fifth grade students submitted 40 energy conservation-themed drawings for the Watts Savings Project Calendar Contest. Download the Calendar Watts Savings Project Awards Ceremony OUC proudly hosted its second annual Watts Savings Project Awards Reception at the St. Cloud Community Center, recognizing and celebrating the outstanding student winners of this year’s program. Students were honored for their creativity, hard work and achievements, and received awards in recognition of their accomplishments. Download Photos Facebook X Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom Government Relations & Financials Doing Business with OUC Copyright © 2026 Orlando Utilities Commission. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Share Feedback This website uses online tracking technologies such as cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, save your preferences and to enable personalized advertising on and off OUC.com. By continuing to access and use our sites and services, you accept and agree to our Terms of Service. Learn more Allow Cookies Decline