SOURCE URL: https://www.ouc.com/about/news/

Newsroom | Latest News and Updates on OUC Skip to content System Upgrade: Due to a scheduled system upgrade, myOUC, OUC’s automated phone system, and text messaging are unavailable. If you are experiencing an electric or water outage, please use our 24-hour outage reporting line at 407-423-9018 . Scheduled maintenance will occur until 8 a.m., Sunday, September 27. During this time, nonpayment disconnections have been suspended for traditional and OUC Power Pass customers. In-person payments will be credited to your account Saturday evening, September 26. Careers Business Contact OUC English Español Log in My Account Pay My Bill Usage Dashboard OUC Alerts Start, Stop or Move Service My OUC Energy Coach Understanding My Bill Using myOUC Service Rates & Costs Smart Meters Solutions & Programs Saving Solutions Rebates Efficiency Delivered Conservation Audits Save Energy & Water Tips Billing Programs OUC Power Pass Budget Billing Business Solutions Development Services Economic Development District Cooling Services Indoor Lighting Services Outdoor Lighting Services Delegated Authority Power Quality & Consumption Analysis Vertical Real Estate - Attachments Portable Water Meters Solar Programs SunChoice for Business SunChoice for Home Rooftop Solar Electric Vehicle Programs EV Charging Hubs EV Benefits & Education Commercial EV Programs Preferred Contractor Network Become a Preferred Contactor Home Warranty Programs Customer Service Contact OUC Report Misuse Bill Inserts & Reports Outage Map Financial & Medical Assistance Report an Outage or Problem Weather & Safety Tips Storm Center Sustainability Sustainability Goals Sustainability at Our Facilities Solar Initiatives Caring for the Environment Electric Vehicle Initiatives Community Commitment to Our Community Community Focus Areas Water Color Project Watts Savings Project Community Requests About OUC Who We Are Our Business Locations OUC’s Commission Newsroom Careers OUC Internships Government Relations & Financials Doing Business With OUC Infrastructure Projects Electric Services Electric Demand Water Services Pay My Bills Report a Problem Start / Stop/ Move Service Business Contact Us Careers Search OUC.com Search Search Log In to myOUC Username Password Forgot Username? Forgot Password? Register OUC Newsroom OUC’s newsroom is your source for the latest news. Featured News September 25, 2026 OUC Selected for $12.9 Million DOE SPARK Grant to Advance Critical Infrastructure OUC has been selected for a $12.97 million Speed to Power through Accelerated Reconductoring and other Key Advanced Transmission Technology Upgrades (SPARK) Grant from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), supporting a major transmission infrastructure project designed to enhance grid reliability and meet growing energy demand across Central Florida. Read More Filter by Year 2026 2025 2024 2023 2022 September 25, 2026 OUC Selected for $12.9 Million DOE SPARK Grant to Advance Critical Infrastructure OUC has been selected for a $12.97 million Speed to Power through Accelerated Reconductoring and other Key Advanced Transmission Technology Upgrades (SPARK) Grant from the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), supporting a major transmission infrastructure project designed to enhance grid reliability and meet growing energy demand across Central Florida. Read More September 2, 2026 U.S. Department of Energy Extends Directive for Curtis H. Stanton Unit 1 Yesterday (9/1), the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) issued emergency DOE Order No. 202-26-42, pursuant to section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act, to the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC). Read More September 1, 2026 OUC Named the Nation’s Most Trusted Electric Utility by Escalent OUC-The Reliable One has been recognized as the No. 1 electric utility in the nation for customer trust, earning the highest Brand Trust score among all electric utilities evaluated in Escalent’s 2026 Cogent Syndicated Utility Trusted Brand & Customer Engagement™: Residential Study. Read More August 21, 2026 OUC Customers Set New Peak Demand Record Amid Extreme Heat Amid an extended stretch of extreme heat, OUC-The Reliable One customers are setting new summer electric demand records across Central Florida, underscoring the critical importance of reliable service and demand management during peak summer conditions. Read More June 10, 2026 OUC Customers Enjoy the Most Reliable Power in Florida For the second consecutive year, OUC-The Reliable One delivered the highest electric reliability in the state, according to reports published this spring based on 2025 data submitted to the Florida Public Service Commission by investor-owned utilities. Read More June 5, 2026 U.S. Department of Energy Directive for Curtis H. Stanton Unit 1 On June 4, 2026, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) issued emergency DOE Order No. 202-26-26, pursuant to section 202(c) of the Federal Power Act, to the Orlando Utilities Commission (OUC). The order directs OUC to ensure that Unit 1 at the Stanton Energy Center (Stanton) in Orlando, Florida remains available to operate. This order is in effect beginning on June 4, 2026 through September 1, 2026. Read More 1 2 3 … 20 Next » Facebook X Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom Government Relations & Financials Doing Business with OUC Copyright © 2026 Orlando Utilities Commission. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Share Feedback This website uses online tracking technologies such as cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, save your preferences and to enable personalized advertising on and off OUC.com. By continuing to access and use our sites and services, you accept and agree to our Terms of Service. Learn more Allow Cookies Decline