SOURCE URL: https://www.ouc.com/solutions-programs/electric-vehicles/

Electric Vehicle Programs | Rebates & Charging Stations | OUC Skip to content System Upgrade: Due to a scheduled system upgrade, myOUC, OUC’s automated phone system, and text messaging are unavailable. If you are experiencing an electric or water outage, please use our 24-hour outage reporting line at 407-423-9018 . Scheduled maintenance will occur until 8 a.m., Sunday, September 27. During this time, nonpayment disconnections have been suspended for traditional and OUC Power Pass customers. In-person payments will be credited to your account Saturday evening, September 26. Careers Business Contact OUC English Español Log in My Account Pay My Bill Usage Dashboard OUC Alerts Start, Stop or Move Service My OUC Energy Coach Understanding My Bill Using myOUC Service Rates & Costs Smart Meters Solutions & Programs Saving Solutions Rebates Efficiency Delivered Conservation Audits Save Energy & Water Tips Billing Programs OUC Power Pass Budget Billing Business Solutions Development Services Economic Development District Cooling Services Indoor Lighting Services Outdoor Lighting Services Delegated Authority Power Quality & Consumption Analysis Vertical Real Estate - Attachments Portable Water Meters Solar Programs SunChoice for Business SunChoice for Home Rooftop Solar Electric Vehicle Programs EV Charging Hubs EV Benefits & Education Commercial EV Programs Preferred Contractor Network Become a Preferred Contactor Home Warranty Programs Customer Service Contact OUC Report Misuse Bill Inserts & Reports Outage Map Financial & Medical Assistance Report an Outage or Problem Weather & Safety Tips Storm Center Sustainability Sustainability Goals Sustainability at Our Facilities Solar Initiatives Caring for the Environment Electric Vehicle Initiatives Community Commitment to Our Community Community Focus Areas Water Color Project Watts Savings Project Community Requests About OUC Who We Are Our Business Locations OUC’s Commission Newsroom Careers OUC Internships Government Relations & Financials Doing Business With OUC Infrastructure Projects Electric Services Electric Demand Water Services Pay My Bills Report a Problem Start / Stop/ Move Service Business Contact Us Careers Search OUC.com Search Search Log In to myOUC Username Password Forgot Username? Forgot Password? Register Electric Vehicle Programs Get more with an EV! OUC offers a variety of programs and services to help residents and businesses go electric. Get Plugged In Considering an EV? Discover the many benefits of electric vehicles. Get Started Charging Your EV Find out where and how to charge your vehicle. Charge Up EV Programs for Businesses Learn about fleet electrification, on-site charging and more. Learn more Considering an EV? EV Education Discover how electric vehicles compare to internal combustion engine vehicles. Learn More Where To Purchase Test drive an EV at one of OUC’s Electrified Dealerships to see if an electric vehicle is right for you. Learn More OUC’s EV Incentives Receive a rebate when you buy or lease an EV. Learn More Charging Your Electric Vehicle Orlando has become one of the most EV-ready cities in the nation. Discover a new era of electric vehicle (EV) charging at OUC’s ReCharge Mobility Hubs. Equipped with cutting-edge DC Fast chargers (DCFC), our hubs provide seamless, hassle-free charging for all types of EVs, ensuring that your vehicle is powered up and ready to go in no time. learn more Explore Our Commercial EV Programs Charge at Your Location OUC offers programs to keep your workforce, employees and customers on the move with hassle-free, cost-effective EV charging stations. With the rate of EV adoption in Central Florida, offering this service is more important than ever. Learn More Electrify Your Fleet OUC will help you develop an electrification strategy for your business’s specific needs, including the procurement and deployment of EVs and charging stations. The analysis provides direct comparisons of gas to EVs, including purchase prices, federal and state incentives, infrastructure costs and more. Learn More OUC’s EV Initiatives in the Community OUC is building an electric vehicle charging infrastructure and supporting the electrification of public transportation across Central Florida by collaborating with local partners. learn more Learn more with the OUC Blog VISIT OUCBLOG Facebook X Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom Government Relations & Financials Doing Business with OUC Copyright © 2026 Orlando Utilities Commission. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Share Feedback This website uses online tracking technologies such as cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, save your preferences and to enable personalized advertising on and off OUC.com. By continuing to access and use our sites and services, you accept and agree to our Terms of Service. Learn more Allow Cookies Decline