SOURCE URL: https://www.ouc.com/community/focus-areas/water-color-project/

Water Color Project | Teachers & Students | OUC Skip to content System Upgrade: Due to a scheduled system upgrade, myOUC, OUC’s automated phone system, and text messaging are unavailable. If you are experiencing an electric or water outage, please use our 24-hour outage reporting line at 407-423-9018 . Scheduled maintenance will occur until 8 a.m., Sunday, September 27. During this time, nonpayment disconnections have been suspended for traditional and OUC Power Pass customers. In-person payments will be credited to your account Saturday evening, September 26. Careers Business Contact OUC English Español Log in My Account Pay My Bill Usage Dashboard OUC Alerts Start, Stop or Move Service My OUC Energy Coach Understanding My Bill Using myOUC Service Rates & Costs Smart Meters Solutions & Programs Saving Solutions Rebates Efficiency Delivered Conservation Audits Save Energy & Water Tips Billing Programs OUC Power Pass Budget Billing Business Solutions Development Services Economic Development District Cooling Services Indoor Lighting Services Outdoor Lighting Services Delegated Authority Power Quality & Consumption Analysis Vertical Real Estate - Attachments Portable Water Meters Solar Programs SunChoice for Business SunChoice for Home Rooftop Solar Electric Vehicle Programs EV Charging Hubs EV Benefits & Education Commercial EV Programs Preferred Contractor Network Become a Preferred Contactor Home Warranty Programs Customer Service Contact OUC Report Misuse Bill Inserts & Reports Outage Map Financial & Medical Assistance Report an Outage or Problem Weather & Safety Tips Storm Center Sustainability Sustainability Goals Sustainability at Our Facilities Solar Initiatives Caring for the Environment Electric Vehicle Initiatives Community Commitment to Our Community Community Focus Areas Water Color Project Watts Savings Project Community Requests About OUC Who We Are Our Business Locations OUC’s Commission Newsroom Careers OUC Internships Government Relations & Financials Doing Business With OUC Infrastructure Projects Electric Services Electric Demand Water Services Pay My Bills Report a Problem Start / Stop/ Move Service Business Contact Us Careers Search OUC.com Search Search Log In to myOUC Username Password Forgot Username? Forgot Password? Register Water Color Project Each year, Orange County Public School students in fourth through twelfth grades help OUC get the word out about the importance of saving water. Students are inspired to become good stewards of our planet and are tasked with creating a piece of artwork to express the importance of water conservation. Calendar Design Project For fourth- and fifth-grade students Students will work with their art instructors to develop positive water conservation messages or slogans. They can then express their artistic talent by creating artwork that illustrates the message or slogan. Selected art pieces are included in the yearly Water Conservation Calendar. Winners are awarded and recognized at the Water Color Project Awards Ceremony. Entry Guidelines Rain Barrel Painting Project For middle and high school students Students will learn about the importance of water conservation and practical ways they can save water. They will then have an opportunity to paint a rain barrel with either water conservation, environmental/eco-friendly or Florida-specific themes and have their work showcased at art exhibits throughout Central Florida. Winners are awarded and recognized at the Water Color Project Awards Ceremony. Entry Guidelines Frequently Asked Questions For more information about the program, please contact Community Engagement at [email protected] . Please see the project guidelines and forms documents for complete submission deadlines, design tips and entry guidelines. How can i participate in the program? Submit a participation form for the calendar or rain barrel contest by Friday, September 4, 2026. You can review then entry guidelines for the calendar design project and the rain barrel painting project by downloading the PDF documents below: 2027 Calendar Design Project Entry Guidelines 2027 Rain Barrel Painting Project Entry Guidelines How does the Water Color Project contest work? Each school may submit select pieces of artwork for entry into the Water Conservation Calendar contest and/or the Rain Barrel Painting Contest. Calendar Contest : Thirteen (13) pieces of artwork will be selected for next year’s Water Conservation calendar. One will be featured on the calendar’s cover, and the other 12 will represent the months of the year. The names of the students, schools, principals and coordinating art instructors will also be published in the calendar. All selected students will receive a plaque of their winning artwork and will be formally recognized at the Water Color Project Awards Ceremony sponsored by OUC. All students who submit artwork will receive a certificate of participation. Rain Barrel Contest : Rain Barrel Painting Project participants will compete in six categories: Best Rain Barrel Overall, Best Water Conservation Theme, Best Florida Theme, Best Orlando/Orange County Theme, Best Environmental/Eco-Friendly Theme and Social Media Favorite. All barrels submitted will be displayed at art exhibits throughout Central Florida. Winning students/teachers will be photographed, awarded and recognized at the Water Color Project Awards Ceremony. Will OUC provide all art materials? Calendar Contest : OUC will provide Calendar Design Project participants with paper (8 ½ x 11 in.). Students must use the paper provided. Rain Barrel Contest : OUC will deliver rain barrel(s) and acrylic paint to schools. How many entries can be submitted to the contest? Calendar Contest : Each school may select a maximum of six (6) entries from fourth- and fifth-grade students for the Calendar Design Project. Rain Barrel Contest : Schools participating in the Rain Barrel Painting Project can enter both participating groups (two barrels) in the contest. Schools must submit a photo submittal form, painting teams form, parental release forms and photographs of the rain barrels. Where do I send the contest entries Calendar Contest : Please send all Calendar Design Project entries to Christy Garton (445 W. Amelia Street, Orlando, FL 32801) via school courier or drop off. Participation forms must be emailed to [email protected] . Rain Barrel Contest : All photographs of Rain Barrel Painting Project entries and entry forms must be emailed to [email protected] . Rain barrels will be picked up by OUC. How will the entries be judged? Calendar Contest : All entries will be judged based on their originality and art/media technique. Calendar Design Project entries will also be judged based on the water conservation message/slogan created and their suitability for reproduction in the calendar. Rain Barrel Contest : Rain Barrel Painting Project entries will also be judged based on their effectiveness in relaying the category theme. “The Water Color Project is not just about preserving resources; it’s also about inspiring the next generation to become good stewards of our planet.” - Linda Ferrone, OUC Chief Customer & Marketing Officer Painting a Brighter Future Water Conservation Calendar For its 20 th year, Orange County Public Schools fourth and fifth grade students submitted 117 water conservation-themed drawings for the Water Color Project Calendar Contest. Download the calendar Rain Barrel Contest Winners Winning barrels were selected in each of the following six categories: Best Rain Barrel Overall, Best Water Conservation Theme, Best Florida Theme, Best Orlando/Orange Theme, Best Environmental/Eco-Friendly Theme and Social Media Favorite. Download Water Color Project Awards Ceremony Each year, OUC hosts a special reception to honor the winners of the Water Color Project. Winning students are honored and awarded for their accomplishments. View the Photos Rain Barrel Auction All rain barrels are entered into a silent auction among OUC employees, Orange County Public Schools staff and the general public. Proceeds raised in the auction directly benefit the OCPS Visual Arts Department, with the proceeds going to winning schools’ art programs. Download Facebook X Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Newsroom Government Relations & Financials Doing Business with OUC Copyright © 2026 Orlando Utilities Commission. All rights reserved. Terms of Use Share Feedback This website uses online tracking technologies such as cookies to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, save your preferences and to enable personalized advertising on and off OUC.com. By continuing to access and use our sites and services, you accept and agree to our Terms of Service. Learn more Allow Cookies Decline